Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:00

### Chef Software Update
* Adam (holoway) is on vacation for the month of April
* Jon Cowie (jonlives) is the designated project lead until Adam returns

### Community Update
* Call out for additional people to nominate themselves as community advocates per our community guidelines.
* Chef Community Summit - http://summit.chef.io - October 14-15, 2015 in Seattle


### Chef Client and Server Update

* now have nightly builds of chef-client on packagecloud! - [https://packagecloud.io/chef/current](https://packagecloud.io/chef/current).
* also a stable channel where traditional "released" builds will land
* the package is called 'chef' if you're using apt / yum
* Windows builds still aren't available through that channel but we are exploring ways to do that

### [Tracking for Standards Track RFCs](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/106)
* Status - Deferred to next meeting
* Discussion - Please leave any additional comments in the PR on GitHub

### [Guidelines for handling conflict and incidents](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/114)
* Status - Ready for merge
* Discussion - Replace "punitive action" with "corrective action"

### [Release process RFC](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/115)
* Status - Ready for merge

### [Initial draft of an ohai configuration specification](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/118)
* Status - Discussion is ongoing
* Discussion
  * Suggest a way to extract shared code to a lib so that ohai isn't dependent on chef and others could build tools that use chef's config without needing all of chef's dependents
  * **ACTION ITEM** Dan DeLeo (kallistec) will write up is suggestion for a shared code lib on the PR and we'll look for an iterative fix that would work in the meantime.
  * Please leave any additional comments in the PR on GitHub

### [Remove method_missing and make Chef::Resource unspecial](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/117)
* Status - Discussion is ongoing
* Discussion
  * John will add a full example to the RFC
  * Additional clarifications to be added and comments addressed

Meeting Adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:46


Next Meeting:

[Thursday, April, 30, 2015 9AM-9:50AM PDT](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=%23chef-hacking+developers%27+meeting&iso=20150430T12&p1=419&am=50)