Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:00 UTC

### Community Update - Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey)

* Community Summits coming
* [London 12-13 October](https://summit.chef.io/london/)
  * Registration open
  * Looking for sponsors
  * Summit will include community demos, come share the awesome things you've been working on!
  * Likely have a hack day on 14 October
* [Seattle 26-27 October](https://summit.chef.io/)
  * Planning still underway, tickets and more information soon.
  * Likely have a small Habitat summit on 25 October
  * Likely have a hack day on 28 October
* Hiring for a [Habitat Community Advocate](https://www.chef.io/careers/detail/?jobId=oznL3fwu) and looking for a few other awesome people to join Chef.  [Full job listings on the website](https://www.chef.io/careers/).

### Software Updates

* [Chef Compliance 1.4.10 released](https://discourse.chef.io/t/chef-compliance-1-4-10-released/9279)
  *  Includes [InSpec 0.32.0](https://github.com/chef/inspec/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#0320-2016-08-26)
* [Supermarket 2.8.3 released](https://discourse.chef.io/t/supermarket-2-8-3-released/9264)
  * Security release to address [CVE-2016-6316](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rubyonrails-security/I-VWr034ouk)
  * Supermarket releases now flow Chef Automate Workflow
  * [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/chef/supermarket/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#283-2016-08-22)
* Supermarket 2.8.15 will go out today
* [Chef Manage 2.4.3 Released](https://discourse.chef.io/t/chef-manage-2-4-3-released/9259)
  * fixed a bug that prevented the /changelog endpoint from reflecting the correct changelog
* Berkshelf 5.0
  * released as a gem, itâ€™ll be in the next chef-dk
  * mostly support for ruby 2.3/2.4 and deprecation of 2.1
  * [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/berkshelf/berkshelf/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v500-2016-08-30)
* Chef provisioning and various provisioning drivers have been released.
  * Mostly to better support Ruby 2.3 in the next release of ChefDK


### [PR-213 - Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/213)
* Status:  Ongoing
* Discussion:
  * Maintainers will be able to sign-off on contributors' commits on behalf of the contributors
  * Still some concerns over the user experience
  * Is this a lateral move that will not have a material impact on the project?
  * Adam (holoway) will weigh-in on and decide on the PR

Meeting adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:21 UTC

Next Meeting:

[Thursday, September 8, 2016 9AM-9:50AM PDT](http://everytimezone.com/#2016-9-8,240,cn3)