# Chef Developers' IRC Meeting

[July 11, 2014 9:03AM-10:05AM PDT](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=%23chef-hacking+developers%27+meeting&iso=20140711T1203&p1=419&ah=1&am=2)

Moderator:  Adam Jacob (holoway)

Secretary:  Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey)

### High-level agenda
* Adam Jacob (holoway) - welcome and agenda review
* Serdar Sutay (serdar) - Chef client update
* Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - Supermarket Update
* Adam Jacob (holoway) - How to make the project more explicit

### Proposals
* Use the [chef-rfc repository](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/) for anything that has a broad impact on Chef.  Adam Jacob takes responsibility for merging PRs to this repository.  **ACCEPTED**

### Action Items

* Read, review, and weigh-in on the thread titled [How to represent nested attributes](http://lists.opscode.com/sympa/arc/chef-dev/2014-07/msg00010.html) on the chef-dev mailing list - sersut, coderanger, and everyone else who cares to.
* Document process for standing up a local Supermarket - cwebber
* Write-up how the PEP process works and discuss it at next weekâ€™s meeting (20 minute time slot) - coderanger
* Write an RFC on how we are going to process RFCs - btm

### Notes

* Chef client update from Serdar Sutay (serdar)
  * Chef Client 11.14.0 Release Candidates are out for all platforms with a to ship 11.14.0 some time next week
  * Chef Development Kit 0.2.0 which includes Windows packages has been released.  Blog post and download links will be made available today.
  * Coming soon:
    * chef-client 10.34.0
    * working on a major release bump for Chef during the rest of the summer
      * SSL verification will be enabled by default along with the tooling needed for bootstrapping Chef nodes correctly
      * We will be updating the Ruby version in the omnibus packages (to 2.1.2 as of right now)
  * we merged the [on_failure rfc](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/blob/master/on_failure.md)
  * we will add an authenticated /universe endpoint to Chef server
    * will allow for a source that is a chef server followed by the supermarket source
* Supermarket update from Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey)
  * [Supermarket](http://supermarket.getchef.com) launched on Monday
  * Supermarket includes a new workflow for sigining contributor license agreements (CLAs)
  * previous CLAs are still in force and the new CLAs on the Supermarket are identical to the ones previously signed
  * Chef maintained cookbooks will soon have PRs tagged based on the CLA of the author
  * Supermarket Project Links
    * [Github](https://github.com/opscode/supermarket)
    * [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/chef-supermarket)
    * [Chat](http://gitter.im/opscode/supermarket)
  * If you need any help or have any questions about the new CLA process, please reach out to me (nharvey@getchef.com) or Chris Webber (cwebber@getchef.com).
* Making the project more explicit from Adam Jacob (holoway)
  * broad agreement that we need to start being more regular and explicit about how we as a community work together to build chef
  * Identify the constituents
    * End Users
    * Chef Developers
    * Ecosystem Developers
    * Chef Software Inc.
    * Other businesses built on Chef
  * As the original author of Chef, Adam Jacob will take the lead in gathering input from all of those constituencies
  * two broad areas for us to get clear on
    * governance - how do we make decisions about how the project will be managed?
    * maintenance policy - how do the folks who do the work of writing code, proposing it for merge, and releasing the software do their work?
  * Leaning towards something like [Docker Governance Advisory Board](http://www.docker.com/community/governance/)
  * Steps toward defining the process
    * we need to bless lieutenants (happy to change the word) that take ownership of significant parts of the Chef code base
    * a first draft of those rules means talking to lots of constituents
  * Some discussion around how changes get approved
    * simple majority of :+1: from maintainers
    * in the case of disagreement, things should probably side with the status quo instead of one person making a decision

### Best quote of the meeting

* the community is made up of people, not employees or non-employees (holoway)

### Tabled discussions and open questions

* Namespacing on the community site - discussion continued immediately following the meeting.
* How does a new community cookbook name gets its name? first one to submit to supermarket wins or there will be some control as to how cookbooks are named? what is the policy to prevent duplicate cookbooks from showing up in supermarket? (sam___)


### Next Meeting

[July 25, 2014 9:00AM-10:00AM PDT]()

