# Chef Developers' IRC Meeting

[Thursday, November 12, 2015 9AM-9:50AM PDT](http://everytimezone.com/#2015-11-12,240,cn3)

Moderator:  Adam Jacob (holoway)

Secretary:  Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey)

### Agenda
* Agenda Review, speaker Adam Jacob (holoway): 2 minutes
* Updates: 15 minutes max.
  * Community Update, speaker Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey): 5 minutes
  * Chef Software Update, speaker Adam Jacob (holoway): 5 minutes
  * Chef Client and Server Update, speaker Adam Edwards (adamedx): 5 minutes
* Review action items from last meeting (holoway): 5 minutes
* Review PRs:  35 minutes
  * Review new PRs and/or PRs deferred during last meeting
    * [PR-161 - Cookbook Segment Deprecation](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/161)
    * [PR-162 - Add additional native gems to omnibus-chef](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/162)
    * [PR-163 - Update versioning for a CI/CD future (and present)](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/163)
  * Review PRs previously discussed
    * [PR-157 - Chef-Client Exit status](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/157)
    * [PR-160 - add 'gem' to cookbook metadata](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/160)
    * [PR-148 - requesting comments about namspace governance](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/148)

### Next Meeting

[Thursday, November 19, 2015 9AM-9:50AM PDT](http://everytimezone.com/#2015-11-19,240,cn3)
