Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:01

### Community Update (nathenharvey)

* Chef Community Summit in London next week
* Our migration from lists.opscode.com to discourse.chef.io is complete
  * Still making changes to improve discourse.  Provide feedback by posting in the "Chef Forums Feedback" category
  * The lifecycle of some changes are being managed via GitHub issues at https://github.com/chef/mailing-list/issues
* CBGB Nominations close tonight at 11:59PM PDT

* Chef Community Summit - http://summit.chef.io
  * Discourse migration - painful but underway.  No more SYMPA
  * CBGB Nominations are now open - https://www.chef.io/blog/2015/10/13/chef-board-of-governance-cbgb-nominations-now-open/
  * November 3-4, 2015 in London

### Chef update
* working on a release of Chef DK 0.10.0 for next week
  * key changes are reverting a change to not produce Berksfiles in generators (e.g. chef cookbook generate) by default
  * new version of knife-windows 1.x will be included (upgrade from 0.8.6) which has some new behaviors on the command line for those using knife winrm, knfie bootstrap windows, etc.
* we're suspending some work we started to modify our internal CI to use Chef Delivery

### [PR-150 - Add subscribes block RFC](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/150)
* Status:  Removed

### [PR-154 - Add RFC for immediately_before notification timing](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/154)
* Status:  In progress, review next week
* Discussion:
  * Need to review with consideration for [CHEF-2421](https://tickets.opscode.com/browse/CHEF-2421)
  * Review next meeting

### [PR-157 - Chef-Client Exit status](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/157)
* Status:  In progress, review next week
* Discussion:
  * Need more thoughts and agreement on the table of errors

### [PR-159 - Ohai Segments and Eager Loading](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/159)
* Status:  In progress, review next week
* Discussion:
  * Need some clarification but generally everyone is +1

### [PR-160 - add 'gem' to cookbook metadata](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/160)
* Status:  In progress, review next week
* Discussion:
  * Lamont will add some details to the RFC and everyone wants this *now*.

Meeting adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:53

Next Meeting:

[Thursday, October 15, 2015 10AM-10:50AM PDT](http://everytimezone.com/#2015-10-15,300,cn3)
