# Chef Developers' IRC Meeting

Thursday, 2 October 2014 1730-1830 UTC

Moderator: Adam Jacob

Secretary: Nathen Harvey

## Proceedings

Meeting called to order at 17:39 by nathenharvey

This meeting happened during the Chef Community Summit.  One of the session rooms was used for people to log in to IRC and the conversation was projected for everyone to see.

John Keiser (jkeiser) asked how to get RFCs onto the agenda for discussion.  Topics can be added via pull request to each meeting's agenda.

### Old Business

* Discussion of [Platform Support RFC](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/21) (juliancdunn)
  * Approved and merged

### New Business

* Discussion of [Attributes for Chef 12](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/53) (jaymzh)
  * **ACTION ITEM** (re)write and (re)publish a blog post about debugging attributes (kallistec)
  * **ACTION ITEM** Elaborate on the reasons for `.delete()` (jaymzh)
  * holoway proposed we revisit at next meeting and merge unless there are strong negative cases we haven't dealt with on the PR
* https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/20 ready for merge at next meeting
* [Proposed governance and maintenance policy](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/58)
  * Lots of discussion on this
  *  We will review and discuss further at the next meeting
  * No LTs should be assigned until after this RFC has been merged, some discussion of potential LTs may happen in a google doc
  * **ACTION ITEM** Write blog and mailing list post summarizing the governance and maintenance policy (holoway)

#### Community Updates

* Summit in Seattle underway now
* Summit in London in two week's time
* An appeal for community advocates for the newly adopted Community Guidelines

#### chef-client update:

*  Chef DK release (0.3.0) with the first working prototype of Policyfiles coming very soon

Meeting adjourned at 18:28 UTC by Nathen Harvey

## Next Meeting

The next meeting will be held on [Wednesday, October, 15, 2014 8AM-9AM PDT](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Chef+Developers%27+IRC+Meeting&iso=20141015T16&p1=136&ah=1).  This is different than our usually scheduled meeting so that it is coordinated with the [London community summit](http://www.cvent.com/events/london-chef-community-summit/agenda-34898bc8c30245c49e6a912c82e9535f.aspx) schedule.
