# Chef Developers' IRC Meeting

Thursday, 13 November 2014 1700-1800 UTC

Moderator: Adam Jacob

Secretary: Nathen Harvey

## Proceedings
Meeting called to order - 17:01 - nathenharvey

* [PR 54 - Replace `chef-solo` with `chef-client --local-mode` functionality](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/54) - (jtimberman)
  * Although work cannot begin immediately on this, the RFC is a clear statement of intent and will be merged.
* [PR 58 - Proposed governance and maintenance policy](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/58) - (holoway)
  * Clarify who is qualified to vote. ([PR-68](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/68))  (jonlives)
  * Start implementing the RFC (nathenharvey)
* [PR 63 - Propose new RFC for migrating off Sympa.](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/63) (juliandunn / nathenharvey)
  * Ready for merge and for the work to begin.
* [PR 65 - Token authentication for Chef Server](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/65) (coderanger)
  * Lots of discussion still required, this will be updated and the discussions will continue as part of the PR and / or on the mailing list.  Definitely something we want but need to find the minimum.
* [PR 66 - Root Aliases in Cookbooks](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/66) (coderanger)
* [PR 67 - RFC - How do we get new powershell DSC resource modules?](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/57) (muktaa)



## Community Update
* [Contributors Section of Supermarket Disabled â€“ Postmortem Meeting](https://www.getchef.com/blog/2014/11/13/contributors-section-of-supermarket-disabled-postmortem-meeting/)
* [ChefConf](http://chefconf.com)
  * March 31 - April 2 at the Santa Clara Convention Center in California
  * Registration and CFP are now both open at http://chefconf.com
  * Tickets for contributors are $700 with discount code [REDACTED]
  * We are considering running a Community Summit / Open Spaces day on March 31 which is typically a day of training workshops.  I'd love to know if you'd be interested in attending something like that.  
  * We are also thinking about the training program that will be offered on March 31 and I'd be interested on your feedback about what classes should be offered.  Last year we had git, ruby, post mortem, and kanban training in addition to the Chef classes.
  * wiki decommission - http://lists.opscode.com/sympa/arc/chef/2014-11/msg00107.html
  * Chef Community on StackExchange has been proposed - http://area51.stackexchange.com/proposals/77609/chef

## Chef Software, Inc. Update

* holoway is working with the rest of the company on roadmap for 2015
* With the new governance policy adopted, LTs must be selected and included in this process

#### chef-client update

* GA release of Chef Client 12 is approaching. We'll be publishing a new RC today. Would appreciate if you can give it a shot and let us know if you see any blockers.
* Chef Provisioning included in the latest [ChefDK 0.3.4](http://downloads.getchef.com/chef-dk/)
* chef-metal was renamed to chef-provisioning and is now available in the ChefDK (0.3.4).  Announcing the RC (the ChefDK version) at AWS:reInvent today, blog post at https://www.getchef.com/blog/2014/11/12/chef-provisioning-infrastructure-as-code/.  1.0 will come out when 1.0 bugs are driven to zero a la https://waffle.io/opscode/chef-provisioning .

#### Chef Server update

* RC6 is available for Server 12.
* Hope for GA early next week.

#### Governance and Maintenance Policy Update


Meeting adjourned - 10:01
