# Chef Developers' IRC Meeting

[July 25, 2014 9AM-10AM PDT](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=%23chef-hacking+developers%27+meeting&iso=20140725T12&p1=419&ah=1)

Moderator:  Adam Jacob (holoway)

Secretary:  Bryan McLellan (btm)

### Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 9:03am PDT by Adam Jacob (holoway)  
Adam Jacob reviewed the agenda, some speakers were absent and will have stand-ins

#### Old business
##### Discussion about choosing an official way to represent nested attributes

Adam Jacob moved to accept Dan Deleo's (kallistec) position [from the mailing list](http://lists.opscode.com/sympa/arc/chef-dev/2014-07/msg00035.html) that arrays and dots are allowed in Ruby and dots are used on the command line. Noah Kantrowitz (coderanger), Scott Hain (shain), Dan Deleo, and Adam Jacob were in support, none against.

**Action Item:** Search currently uses an underscore as a separator, discuss and determine how to handle representing nested attributes for search queries and returned results.

Noah Kantrowitz suggested a list be created to scope the changes required to align with the new nested attribute standard.

**Action Item:** Steven Danna (ssd7) will create a list as an RFC before the next meeting.

##### Setting up a local (private) Supermarket instance

Christopher Webber (cwebber) was not available to speak, Nathan Smith (nlloyds) reported in his place.

The Chef Software oc-id project will be open-sourced. This project provides the OAuth2 interface to a Chef Server, which allows Supermarket to authenticate with an existing Chef Server instance. It will initially be included with Enterprise Chef Server Omnibus package.

Joshua Timberman (jtimberman) asked if oc-id would work with and Open Source Chef Server. Nathan Smith said it hasn't been tested yet, but should work.

Nathan Smith said that support for adding applications to oc-id is planned, with a feature and interface similar to <https://github.com/settings/applications>.

##### IRC Meeting Time

Adam Jacob reported that no time stood out in the survey results that was ideal. Rotating the meeting time to accomodate North America one meeting and eurasian time zones the next was discussed. JJ Asghar (j^2) pointed out that the resulting confusion would be likely to limit attendance. Adam Jacob proposed moving the meeting to Thursdays, continue to be biweekly, and he will choose the time that fits the most time zones that responded to the survey. Julian Dunn (juliancdunn), Joshua Timberman, Noah Kantrowitz, and Zac Stevens (zts) were in support, none against.

**Action Item:** Adam Jacob will update the [RFC001: IRC Meetings](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/blob/master/rfc001-irc-meetings.md) with the new time  
**Action Item:** Adam Jacob will add a discussion of the new time to the agenda in two meetings

#### Reports

##### Community + Chef Software Update

Adam Jacob reported continued progress discussing Chef governance and maintainence policy proposals approved by Chef Software stakeholders, e.g. the Board of Directors. He reported theres been no friction so far, but does not yet know when the proposal will be ready for public discussion. 

An update on the progress of this task will be provided at every meeting henceforth.

##### Chef Client Report

Serdar Sutay (sersut) reported that release candidates for Chef 11.14.0 & 10.34.0 are available and have been under testing for a while. Releases are expected next week.

The Chef 12 scoping RFC [pull request](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/22) has had good discussion and will be merged soon. Chef Software is targeting October for the Chef 12 client release.

Adam Jacob encouraged everyone to review and comment on the Chef 12 scoping RFC.

Noah Kantrowitz pointed out that it has overlap with the platform support RFC [pull request](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/21)

**Action Item:** Serdar Sutay will link the Chef 12 + Platform RFCs  
**Action Item:** Serdar Sutay will merge any/all Chef 12 RFCs together

##### Presentation of the Python Enhancement Proposal (PEP) Process

Noah Kantrowitz explained the PEP process and provided a comparison of other similar processes in a [slide deck](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3962871/Enhancement%20Proposal%20Processes.pdf).

Adam Jacob asked if Noah Kantrowitz had a preferred process and he indicated a middle ground between the PEP and OpenStack blueprint processes.

Noah Kantrowitz pointed out his File Specificity Overhaul RFC [pull request](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/31) as an example of a good template for RFCs.

Adam Jacob moved to try out a PEP based process, with himself as the "decider" in place of a BFDL since we do not have an established governance policy yet. He also moved to have Noah Kantrowitz write an RFC for the process. Both motions were supported by Bryan McLellan, none against.

**Action Item:** Noah Kantrowitz will produce an RFC workflow process modeled similar to PEP, and submit it as an RFC.

##### Supported Workflow and Learning Path

Adam Jacob reported he is submitting an RFC that discusses having two community supported workflows, but the discussion was tabled due to having no time remaining in the meeting.

**Action Item:** Adam Jacob will add an agenda item to the next meeting for supported workflows.  
**Action Item:** Adam Jacob will share his workflow proposal as an RFC before the next meeting.


Meeting adjourned at 10:05am PDT by Adam Jacob
