Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenha_) 16:00

### Community Update (nathenha_)

* CBGB votes are in and notifications to elected members will be going out this week.

### Chef Software update (holoway)

* Chef is wrapping up the year, heading into a kickoff in January

### Chef Client and Server update (adamedx)

*  ohai 8.8 release coming soon
*  chef-client 12.6 release planned for next week
  * https://github.com/chef/chef/pull/4225/files
  * https://github.com/chef/chef/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md
* chef-dk release following the week after
* we'd like to move toward a predictable release day each month, watch for an administrative rfc on this topic

### [PR-168 - Chef code should have consistent style](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/168)
* Status:  Approved

### [PR-161 - Cookbook Segment Deprecation](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/161)
* Status:  Moved to next week
* Discussion:
  * The RFC was rewritten shortly before the meeting.
  * Revisit next week to allow folks time to read.

### [PR-169 - New signing protocol allowing hashing algorithms other than SHA1](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/169)
* Status:
* Discussion:
  * Remove SHA1
  * v1.3 will be RSA + SHA256

Meeting adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenha_) 16:27

Next Meeting:

[Thursday, December 10, 2015 9AM-9:50AM PST](http://everytimezone.com/#2015-12-10,240,cn3)
