Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:01 UTC

### Chef Software Update
* Adam (holoway) is on vacation for the month of April
* Jon Cowie (jonlives) is the designated project lead until Adam returns

### Community Update
* ChefConf videos - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_DEToXsgrPc&list=PL11cZfNdwNyO9CpTWH2qjYfzysEtpfOCd
* Cookbook Survey - http://bit.ly/chefconf2015-cookbook-survey
* Awesome Community Chefs:  Jon Cowie (jonlives), Matt Wrock, and Noah Kantrowitz (coderanger)
* Chef Community Summit - http://summit.chef.io - October 14-15, 2015 in Seattle

### Chef Client and Server Update
* packagecloud repos for chef-dk, chef-server, other chef releases - https://packagecloud.io/chef
* working on releasing to nightly channels
* postmortems indicate a need for more integration testing
* https://github.com/chef/chef/issues/3205 - nightlies vs prereleases vs stable vs versioning madness for client

### [Update rfc041 to final](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/113)
* Status: Merged
* Discussion:  
  * [Chef Server API Versioning (RFC-041)](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/blob/mp/rfc041-status-update/rfc041-server-api-versioning.md) has been implemented in chef server and will be available shortly in the chef server nightly builds.
  * RFC Editors should be able to merge requests like this without requiring review

### [adding reclassify_amazon_linux_platform_family](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/109)
* Status:  Hold
* Discussion:
  * We definitely need an Ohai Config RFC as we've been discussing in #108
  * btm or thom to create an Ohai Config RFC

### [Nested recipe support](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/102)
* Status:  Hold
* Discussion
  * Some additional -1s in the meeting, will take the conversation to the PR
  * Move to the agenda for next week

### [Lcg/node state separation](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/100)
* Status:  Approved for merge
* Discussion
  * One outstanding question about how dirtied data is detected

### [Ohai cloud network enhancements](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/8)
* Status:  Approved for merge
* Discussion
  * Does a major version release of ohai require/warrant/suggest a major version bump of Chef?

### [Tracking for Standards Track RFCs](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/106)
* Status:  Ongoing
* Discussion
  * Still some outstanding feedback in the PR to be addressed
  * Will revisit next week

### [ohai identity attributes RFC](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/108)
* Status:  Hold
* Discussion:
  * We definitely need an Ohai Config RFC as we've been discussing in #108
  * btm or thom to create an Ohai Config RFC

### PRs Moved to next meeting's agenda

* [PR 102 - Nested recipe support](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/102)
* [PR 106 - Tracking for Standards Track RFCs](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/106)

Meeting Adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:52 UTC


Next Meeting:

[Thursday, April, 16, 2015 9AM-10AM PDT](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=%23chef-hacking+developers%27+meeting&iso=20150416T12&p1=419&am=50)
