Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) -  16:00 UTC

### Community Update - Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey)

* [ChefConf](https://chefconf.chef.io/2017/) officially kicks off on Monday, May 22 with training workshops, a Chef Community Summit, and a Habitat Community Summit.  That's followed by two days of conferencing and we close out the week on Thursday with a hack day.

### Software Updates

* [[Pre-Release Announcement] Chef Client 12.18](https://discourse.chef.io/t/pre-release-announcement-chef-client-12-18/10254)
* [Chef Automate Release 0.6.64](https://discourse.chef.io/t/chef-automate-release-0-6-64/10077)
* [ChefDK 1.1.16](https://discourse.chef.io/t/chefdk-1-1-16-released/10087)
* [Improvements to docs.chef.io - content snapshots](https://discourse.chef.io/t/improvements-to-docs-chef-io-content-snapshots/10105)
* [Knife-windows 1.8.0](https://discourse.chef.io/t/knife-windows-1-8-0-released/10109)
* Foodcritic 8.2 with new chef version metadata
* a couple of Berkshelf releases

### Review open RFCs

* [https://chef.github.io/chef-rfc/](https://chef.github.io/chef-rfc/)

### [PR 236 - Add Sous Chefs to reserved prefixes](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/236)
* Status:  Approved

### [PR 248 - Update RFC41 to reflect the reality of Chef Server](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/248)
* Status:  Approved

### [PR 237 - Added client-rb-logger.md](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/237/)
* Status:  On-hold
* Discussion:
  * Needs more detailed spec
  * Placing on hold pending further updates

### [PR 238 - Attributes dot Next](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/238)
* Status:  On-hold

### [PR 245 - RFC for removing unused metadata fields](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/245)
* Status:  Approved

### [Chef PR 5728 - Add myself as core maintainer](https://github.com/chef/chef/pull/5728)
* Status:  Approved

Meeting adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) -  16:51 UTC

## Next Meeting:

[Thursday, January 26, 2017 9AM-9:50AM PST](http://everytimezone.com/#2017-1-26,300,cn3)