Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) 17:01

### Community Update Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey)

* [CFP for ChefConf is open](https://chefconf.chef.io/call-for-presentations/).
* [ChefConf tickets](https://chefconf.chef.io) are on sale now.  Early bird ends April 17.

### CBGB Update

* this first meeting aimed to set out a bunch of stuff around what the CBGB will actually *do*, defined a missions statement and core values for the chef project
* we also looked at reviewing our core processes (the community that is), the health of the community overall, and then considered technical recommendations the board might want to make
* one thing of note for this meeting is to weigh in on was the idea that the CBGB did not see a burning need for a breaking release of Chef 13
  * ACTION - Come up with a list of things that would warrant a Chef 13 and a place to capture such things - Thom May (thommay)
* [Draft CBGB Report](https://gist.github.com/dougireton/85fed9408effd62eee79)
* ACTION - publish a blog post about the CBGB meeting and move the report to an "official" location - Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey)

### Chef Client and Server update (adamedx)

* chef-dk 0.11.0 is almost here
  * updated inspec with support for new rules around the Windows registry and security options
  * much-improved knife-windows with standard Windows authentication available from Linux / Mac workstations
  * lots of dependency updates for berks, test-kitchen, etc.
  * Installing and Uninstalling on Windows are substantially faster and will avoid post-install high-cpu issues
  * [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/chef/chef-dk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
* focus moving  forward is to just release this predictably every month as we are doing for chef-client

### [PR-185 - Minimum supported Mac OS X version is now 10.9](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/185)
* Status:  Approved

### [PR-186 - RFC-meetbot](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/186)
* Status:  In progress
* Discussion:
  * CBGB has recommended moving to slack for these meetings should we delay implementation?
  * Generally in favor of automation but need to remove specific implementation details such as "irc"

### [PR-187 - Multiple policy support](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/187)
* Status:  In progress
* Discussion:
  * Please discuss pros and cons in the PR
  * Revisit next week

### [PR-188 - Add downstream impact section](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/188)
* Status:  Provisionally Approved
* Discussion:
  * Approved so long as it includes an update the template(s) for new RFCs

### [Dilemmas that the Chef maintainers need to resolve for themselves](https://e.chef.io/p/maintainers_dilemma)

* We did not really have time to fully review and discuss this
* Big question to think about is how we want to handle picking through that.
* Will add to next week's agenda

Meeting adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) 17:50

Next Meeting:

[Thursday, February 25, 2016 9AM-9:50AM PST](http://everytimezone.com/#2016-02-25,300,cn3)
