12:01 < nathenharvey> ***** MEETING STARTS *****
12:01 <@jonlives> o/
12:01 < nathenharvey> today's agenda can be found here - https://github.com/chef/chef-community-irc-meetings/blob/master/2016-02-18-agenda.md
12:02 < nathenharvey> We'll have a couple of updates, including one from the CBGB.  Then we have a few PRs to review and can pick-up a conversation opened by btm last week
12:02 < nathenharvey> I'll start us off with a community update.
12:03 < nathenharvey> ChefConf is a topic I'll likely bring up between now and July.  As a reminder, the CFP is open now and scheduled to close 29 Feb.
12:03 < nathenharvey> Early bird tickets are available now as well.
12:04 < nathenharvey> In other community-related news the cookbook engineering team continues to push out a number of cookbook updates and are triaging issues and PRs at a pretty good pace
12:05 < nathenharvey> holoway: are you here?  I'd like to turn the floor over to you for an update on the CBGB
12:06 < nathenharvey> hmmm....perhaps we have another CBGB member available who can give us a quick tl;dr on last week's meeting?
12:06 < nathenharvey> A report was published here - https://gist.github.com/dougireton/85fed9408effd62eee79
12:06 <@jtimberman> we met. we banged gavels.
12:06 <@jonlives> I'll do it if'n you like
12:06 <@jtimberman> governed and whatnot
12:07 <@jonlives> ^ that
12:07 <@jtimberman> we met most of the day thursday, discussed many things, which lead to that report above.
12:07 <@coderanger> nathenharvey: Are we going to publish the report somewhere slightly more official-like?
12:07 <@jonlives> this first meeting aimed to set out a bunch of stuff around what the CBGB will actually *do*, defined a missions statement and core values for the chef project
12:08 <@jonlives> we also looked at reviewing our core processes (the community that is), the health of the community overall, and then considered technical recommendations the board might want to make
12:08 < nathenharvey> coderanger: yes, I would like to have a blog post that covers the CBGB and includes the report.  Additionally, I'd like to see the report end up in a repo somewhere.  Perhaps the chef-rfc repo, perhaps the chef repo?
12:08 < adamedx> I had a question about something in that gist, should I follow up after this meeting?
12:08 <@jonlives> adamedx: depends how long the answer is likely to be ;)
12:09 < adamedx> I think its quick
12:09 < adamedx> just a clarification on the technical direction section
12:09 < adamedx> about publishing builds of chef-dk to omnitruck
12:09 < adamedx> which we do currently, so I might be misunderstanding the  request
12:09 <@jonlives> I think the ask there was that they get pushed to the stable channel instead of just the current channel
12:10 <@jonlives> (or as well as)
12:10 <@jonlives> coderanger: that was what we said wasn't it?
12:10 < adamedx> ok, they are on the stable channel, so we should probably dig into what people are seeing after the meeting (I always install chef-dk via omnitruck stable channel)
12:10 < adamedx> we can move on
12:11 <@coderanger> Might have just been fixed long ago and we didn't notice
12:11 <@holoway> sorry - got stuck
12:12 < nathenharvey> I'll take as an action item to get a blog post published on CBGB and get it published to a repo somewhere
12:12 < adamedx> cool @coderanger, if you see we're not doing it though, we need to fix it
12:12 < adamedx> we've never broken omnitruck before...
12:12 < nathenharvey> holoway: welcome!  we've just completed a quick recap of CBGB meeting and I'm about to turn things over to adamedx for an update on Chef software
12:12 <@holoway> I think one thing for this channel to weigh in on was the idea that the CBGB didnt' see a burning need for a breaking release of Chef 13
12:13 < adamedx> yeah, that's interesting to me
12:13 < adamedx> I see a lot of improvements that might be considered breaking
12:13 < adamedx> particularly on Windows
12:14 <@holoway> as maintainers, we can do what we need to
12:14 <@holoway> so if we need to do that, we can
12:14 <@btm> someone needs to take the lead on making the place to collect what people think we are putting off for 13.
12:14 <@holoway> but from their perspective, stability was preferable (nobody in that room was a core windows user)
12:14 <@holoway> anyway - we can bring it up again as needed
12:14 < adamedx> an oversight holoway?
12:15 <@holoway> an oversight of what?
12:15 <@holoway> they were elected
12:15 <@holoway> :)
12:15 <@holoway> not chosen
12:15 < adamedx> true
12:15 <@jtimberman> it's not that we don't care about windows!
12:15 < adamedx> let's do as btm suggests
12:15 <@holoway> it's that the *people* don't care about windows (I kid!)
12:15 < adamedx> we can see just how bad it is
12:16 <@jtimberman> holoway: heh heh ;)
12:16 < adamedx> :)
12:16 <@btm> I think not having the wiki, we've lost the "default" place to collect lists of things. I'd suggest etherpad because it's already there.
12:16 <@coderanger> btm: https://github.com/chef/chef/issues/3705
12:16 <@coderanger> Or just search Accepted Major on the issues
12:17 <@btm> coderanger: we could expand that issue to include breaking changes too?
12:17 <@coderanger> btm: Any that don't have a ticket already should have one put in
12:17 <@thom> note that those are all negative reasons; i think that etherpad is a better way to track why people want to go to 13
12:17 <@coderanger> But a bunch of those are breaking changes planned in the future
12:18 <@thom> (that bug, not accepted major)
12:18 <@holoway> ok - lets move to the enxt agenda item, and y'all can put together something to talk about
12:18 <@coderanger> thom: -inf, put in issues for them
12:18 < tas50> ohai has ohai 9 items tagged as well so a similar breaking changes list could be compiled there
12:19 < nathenharvey> I'll capture as an action item:  Come up with a list of things that would warrant a Chef 13
12:19 < nathenharvey> and let's move on to adamedx for an update on Chef server, client, etc.
12:20 < adamedx> thank you
12:20 < adamedx> chef-dk 0.11.0 is almost here
12:20 < adamedx> and rather overdue
12:21 < adamedx> last release was in November, and this will go out before next week's IRC meeting
12:21 < adamedx> our focus moving  forward is to just release this predictably every month as we are doing for chef-client
12:21 <@jtimberman> üëç
12:22 < adamedx> key changes include lots of dependency updates for berks, test-kitchen
12:22 < adamedx> a very much improved knife-windows that lets you manage your Windows boxes from Linux / MacOS via WinRM without changing any defaults -- it just works (well, as well as WinRM just works)
12:23 < adamedx> And also on Windows the installation and uninstallation are substantially faster and will avoid post-install high-cpu issues
12:23 < adamedx> you can try out a build that may be promoted to stable soon by requesting version 0.11.0 on the current channel
12:23 < adamedx> Changelog is here: https://github.com/chef/chef-dk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md
12:23 < adamedx> And thanks to this group btw
12:23 < adamedx> for work on the version RFC
12:24 < adamedx> we used that in the chef-client 12.7.2 release and are using that with chef-dk as well
12:24 < adamedx> and yes, this will be available on the STABLE channel when it is released :)
12:24 < adamedx> back to you nathenharvey
12:24 < nathenharvey> thanks!
12:25 < nathenharvey> holoway: do you have any Chef Software, Inc. updates for us today?
12:25 <@holoway> nope
12:25 < nathenharvey> Great, let's move to our first RFC then - PR-185 - Minimum supported Mac OS X version is now 10.9 - https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/185
12:26 <@jtimberman> üëç
12:26 < nathenharvey> schisamo: you opened this PR.  anything to be said here?
12:26 < nathenharvey> looks like it's ready for merge
12:26 < nellshamrell> Pretty universal thumbs up
12:26 <@jonlives> yah
12:27 <@holoway> do it
12:27 <@holoway> next up!
12:27 < nathenharvey> Next up is j^2's RFC-meetbot PR - https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/186
12:27 <@jtimberman> nathenharvey: Seth is PTO ;)
12:27 < j^2> hi!
12:28 <@coderanger> I think he should hold off on the RFC because we are planning to move these meetings off IRC
12:28 < nathenharvey> jtimberman: approved in his absence :)  yay for PTO!
12:28 <@coderanger> (a thing j^2 wouldn't have known)
12:28 < j^2> so yeah i‚Äôd like to open this up as a way to automate note taking
12:28 < j^2> there‚Äôs no reason why we couldn‚Äôt create the same for something off IRC
12:28 < j^2> the process of having it in place though is what i‚Äôm trying to suggest, have the bot take the notes export the summary capture action items etc
12:29 <@thom> yeah, there's no real reason that slackbot or whatever couldn't do the same job
12:29 < j^2> it works swimmingly in the OpenStack world, it seems like something we could leverage here
12:29 <@coderanger> Fair, maybe just remove mention of "IRC" specifically :)
12:29 < j^2> will do, updates soon
12:29 <@btm> j^2: I've been thinking in general, I'd like to see the writing style be more declarative and have the right tense so the RFC doesn't sound wrong if/when implemented.
12:29 <@jtimberman> i'm in favor of the idea for sure, but we should hold off on specifics until we've settled the discussion mentioned in the cbgb report about where community chat things happen.
12:30 < j^2> noted
12:30 < j^2> btm: totally, updates soon
12:30 <@thom> q
12:30 < j^2> as I‚Äôve done in the past, i just think the idea that we have it ‚Äúon the books‚Äù as a process we want to do then we figure out later on the specifics
12:31 < j^2> but yeah to coderanger‚Äôs point i‚Äôll remove the specific IRC point here in a bit
12:31 < j^2> \o/
12:31 <@coderanger> thumbsup overall
12:32 <@btm> j^2: "can open up people to have conversations instead of the dogma of making sure the conversations stay on track."
12:32 < j^2> btm: yeah?
12:32 <@btm> j^2: can you explain that? do you mean the person taking notes can participate instead of taking notes?
12:32 <@btm> j^2: or would this someone make it so we talk about multiple things at once?
12:33 < j^2> btm: more to the fact of the experience of the note taker from OpenStack. Before leveraging the meetbot the notetaker would get lost in the process instead of the conversation. From that experience it seemed reasonable that it‚Äôs possible it could happen in our meetings, I wanted to nip that in the bud before it happened here
12:34 < j^2> I was trying to be proactive instead of reactive which a lot of process seems to be created for
12:35 <@btm> okay. I'll comment on the PR.
12:35 < j^2> rockon
12:35 < nathenharvey> ok, sounds like we're in general agreement with some tweaks.  Let's revisit next week and move on to Multiple policy support - https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/187
12:36 <@coderanger> So I put this in mostly so people can tell me all the ways it will be a broken pile of terrible
12:36 <@coderanger> The goal is to extend the policyfile workflow to include orgs where multiple teams interact on the same box(en)
12:36 < lamont_oc2> yeah, 187 needs to bake awhile longer
12:37 <@holoway> we've had this idea float around for a while
12:37 <@coderanger> This is something not really handled in any Chef workflow right now (except maybe Delivery)
12:37 <@holoway> I think something like this is inevitable
12:37 <@coderanger> but any major user is going to hit it
12:37 <@holoway> yeah, delivery would coalesce a single policy
12:38 <@coderanger> So yeah, read it, tell me all the things you think will go horribly wrong so I can fix 'em :)
12:39 < nathenharvey> coderanger: thanks!  we can move further discussion and feedback to the PR and I'll add this to the agenda for next week
12:39 < nathenharvey> And we'll move on to Add downstream impact section - https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/188
12:40 <@coderanger> thumbsup
12:40 < nathenharvey> feels like bringing this one up is just to explicitly approve it here.
12:40 <@jonlives> for the record, this one is derived from something the CBGB proposed, which is being more explicit about the potential downstream impact of RFCs etc.
12:40 <@thom> jonlives: thanks for typing faster than me :)
12:40 <@jonlives> oh sorry I didn't spot you were here :D
12:41 <@coderanger> We should probably also update the template in rfc0
12:41 <@thom> coderanger: will do
12:41 <@coderanger> for consistency :)
12:41 <@thom> more tempted to rip that one out and just say "see new/rfc-template.md" there
12:42 <@holoway> y
12:42 <@coderanger> thom: Having a single doc is nice, and we've only changed it 3 times in the past year
12:42 <@thom> eh, keeping something in two distinct places just seems like a recipe for sadness
12:43 <@thom> but yeah it doesn't change often
12:43  * thom shrugs
12:44 < nathenharvey> so approved pending updating the template(s) for new rfc then?
12:45 <@coderanger> shipit.gif
12:45 < nathenharvey> That leaves us with another 5 minutes for btm's Dilemmas that the Chef maintainers need to resolve for themselves - https://e.chef.io/p/maintainers_dilemma
12:47 <@holoway> +1
12:48 <@thom> i think a lot of the first two bullets are kind of covered by the CBGB report
12:50 <@btm> so it's a brain dump of things we've tripped over in the last year or so. some may be less painful than at the time but I wasn't sure we had official decisions (or decisions to not decide) anywhere.
12:50 < nathenharvey> We are at time so I will add this to next weeks agenda for further discussion
12:50 < nathenharvey> Next meeting is scheduled for next Thursday, February 25, 2016 9AM-9:50AM PST - http://everytimezone.com/#2016-02-25,300,cn3
12:50 <@btm> big question to think about is how we want to handle picking through that.
12:50 < nathenharvey> ***** MEETING ENDS *****
