# Chef Developers' IRC Meeting
Thursday, 18 September 2014 1600-1700 UTC

Moderator: Nathen Harvey

Secretary: Steven Danna

## Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 16:00 UTC by NathenHarvey

### Old Business
- 2 new RFC editors, one more awaiting vote.  More still welcome.

- Jonlives sent a message to the ML about the PR for generating
the repo with chef-dk in the one repo pattern.

    PR: https://github.com/opscode/chef-dk/pull/150
    ML: http://lists.opscode.com/sympa/arc/chef/2014-09/msg00035.html

    This looks ready to merge, but sersut is out so it is pending
    his return.

- RFC 19 (The Great Workflow RFC) has been merged - https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/blob/master/rfc019-chef-workflows.md

- Nathen Harvey hosted a meeting to further discuss
comm. guidelines.  https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/47
has been updated to reflect those discussions

- Nathen proposed adopting the RFC. +1's from adamleff,
coderanger, fnichol, holow (via PR)

- ACTION: Nathen Havey will send out a message to the mailing list
about the new community guidelines, write a blog post, and get
them included in our docs site.

- Adam was going to do a post to the ML about the deprecation of
the current WebUI.  Coderanger wrote a post instead and Nathan
added a note to the chef-webui repo.  Adam still plans on
writing a blog post.

- ACTION (sdelano, ssd): Ensure WebUI deprecation is clear in the
release notes.

- ACTION: j^2 will write a blog post about the work arounds for
the service provider madness on Ubuntu.


### New Business

- Platform support proposal defered to the summit.  Summit session
will incorporate IRC or some method for remote involvement.

#### Community Updates
- Summit: Hope to see you!
- Supermarket has 2 new features: https://www.getchef.com/blog/2014/09/15/new-supermarket-features-fieri-and-contingent-cookbooks/

#### Chef Software Update:
- Lawyers engaged on main and governanace - shoudl schedule IRC
MTG conccurrent with the summit to discuss both.

#### Chef Server Update
- Chef Server 12 RC is out. Great feedback coming in.

- RC coming out soon with some fixes (including Push server
support).  We are shooting for a final release by the summit.

- Bugs should be reported as Github Issues against the
opscode-omnibus project.
