Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) -

### Community Update (nathenharvey)

* Chef Community Summit - http://summit.chef.io - October 14-15, 2015 in Seattle
* Location found for the London summit, details coming soon!
  * Mark your calendars for November 3 & 4
* ChefConf 2016 Update
  * New dates:  July 11-13, 2016 in the same location, Austin, TX
* Office Hours via Meetup.com - http://www.meetup.com/Chef-Office-Hours/
* Product Feedback - https://feedback.chef.io/
* Mailing list migration update:  We are engaging with the team at Dicourse.org for the migration.

### Chef Update

* CBGB - no real progress.  Need to delegate / focus some people on creating and defining that

### Chef Client and Server Update

* new versions of chef-client and chef-server coming
* found more regressions in chef-client rc2
  * rc3 to be released later this week or next
* Chef Server 12.1 and Enterprise Chef Server 11.3.2 are on their way through the release pipeline right now.
* We will also be releaseing a new version of Chef Manage and Supermarket
  * updated version of redis that addresses a security vulnerability
  * https://github.com/chef/chef-server/blob/master/omnibus/CHANGELOG.md  

### [Initial draft of an ohai configuration specification](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/118)
* Status:  Approved
* Discussion:
  * Need a design that unifies and lays out the user experience for ohai as a new rfc that builds on the existence of a configuration system
  * start iterating on a config layer, and start the discussion about UX  
  * **TODO** - Start an RFC that builds on the existence of a configuration system - thom

### [Add "property" to resource](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/128)
* Status:  Approved, ready for merge

### [Propose moving OpenBSD 5.7+ i386 and amd64 into Tier 2 support](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/130)
* Status:  Approved, pending Joe Miller adding himself as a new maintainer

### [Ubuntu 10.04 LTS is no longer a supported platform.](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/129)
* Status:  On-hold
* Discussion:
  * Lamont needs to comment
  * will revisit next week

### PRs not discussed, we'll pick-up next week:
Please continue to discuss these in the PRs.  We will discuss them in next week's meeting.

* [RFC some changes to default behavior](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/135)
* [Proposal for default resource name and DSL](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/136)


Meeting Adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) -

Next Meeting:

[Thursday, June, 25, 2015 9AM-9:50AM PDT](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=%23chef-hacking+developers%27+meeting&iso=20150625T12&p1=419&am=50)
