12:00 < nathenharvey> ***** MEETING STARTS *****
12:00 < nathenharvey> Agenda for today's meeting is here - https://github.com/chef/chef-community-irc-meetings/blob/master/2015-06-18-agenda.md
12:00 -!- rombob [~rombob@66.207.198.34] has joined #chef-hacking
12:00 <@thom> good mooooorning irc
12:01 < adamedx> mornin
12:01 < rombob> morning
12:01 <@holoway> quick agenda overview - updates first, only action item from last meeting that is urgent is covering 118 which is top of the list, and lots of RFCs to review
12:01 <@holoway> so lets get to it
12:01 <@holoway> nathenharvey: your up
12:01 < nathenharvey> thanks!
12:02 < nathenharvey> Chef Community Summit - http://summit.chef.io Oct 14-15 in Seattle.
12:02 < nathenharvey> London will be November 3 & 4.  Registration for that should open by end of next week or so.  Mark your calendars
12:02 < nathenharvey> or diaries
12:02 <@holoway> (do they call them diaries over there?)
12:03 <@thom> one's buttler handles that sort of thing
12:03 <@holoway> :)
12:03 <@holoway> we need more butlers in the states
12:03 <@holoway> we truly are the mob
12:03 < nathenharvey> ChefConf 2016 will be moved.  We'll announce it soon but the new dates will be July 11-13.  It will be in the previously announced location, Austin, Texas
12:03 -!- tkuchiki [~tkuchiki@softbank126066124204.bbtec.net] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
12:04 < tBunnyMan> gasp!
12:04 < nathenharvey> we aren't announcing the new dates yet b/c we don't want people to be confused and show up in Austin next month.
12:04 <@thom> chefconf on my birthday
12:04 < nathenharvey> July 11-13 should be nice and warm in Austin.  but won't conflict with Microsoft's Ignite conference.
12:04 <@thom> blimey
12:04 < nathenharvey> we'll all celebrate Thom May's birthday :)
12:05 < adamedx> ah, the conference birthday
12:05 < nathenharvey> We're talking with the people over at Discourse about getting our mailing list migration underway.  updates as we have them
12:05  * ssd7 might melt
12:05 <@thom> this couldn't possibly go badly
12:05 -!- goacid [~Goacid@2a01:e34:ec14:c350:542e:2fb0:42ca:9b95] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
12:05 < nathenharvey> and a couple of quick reminders about new sites / urls you should be aware of
12:05 -!- ranjib [49bdd590@gateway/web/freenode/ip.73.189.213.144] has joined #chef-hacking
12:06 < nathenharvey> Product Feedback - http://feedback.chef.io - read, contribute, comment, and vote on things that fall outside of support requests, this RFC process, etc.
12:06 < nathenharvey> and http://www.meetup.com/Chef-Office-Hours/ where we've been announcing regular Chef Office Hours
12:06 < nathenharvey> that's that community update for this week.  As always, happy to answer the questions you have.
12:07 <@holoway> thanks nathenharvey
12:07 -!- pbpolar [uid12070@gateway/web/irccloud.com/x-gmrpebfuwaxmylga] has joined #chef-hacking
12:07 -!- heathsnow [~heathsnow@63-158-207-60.dia.static.qwest.net] has joined #chef-hacking
12:07 <@holoway> lots of folks traveling and otherwise out and about at Chef software - the large issue outstanding is setting up the CBGB
12:07 <@holoway> clearly it needs to just get delegated :)
12:08 -!- withnale_ [~withnale_@gateway.wby.mendeley.com] has quit [Quit: Be back later ...]
12:08 <@holoway> adamedx: chef client/server updates?
12:08 < adamedx> thx
12:08 < adamedx> yes, new versions of chef-client and chef-server are on the way
12:08 < adamedx> first u thom can tell us about chef-client
12:08 < adamedx> first up
12:08 <@thom> well, we found some more regressions in RC 2
12:09 -!- heathsnow [~heathsnow@63-158-207-60.dia.static.qwest.net] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
12:09 <@thom> so there'll be an RC3 once those are fixed, which i guess will be next week at this point
12:09 -!- heathsnow [~heathsnow@63-158-207-60.dia.static.qwest.net] has joined #chef-hacking
12:09 < adamedx> thanks thom, and thanks to everyone pounding away on rc's
12:09 <@thom> i think #3546 is the remaining one
12:09 < adamedx> to find issues
12:10 < adamedx> ssd7 now for chef-server
12:10 -!- heathsnow [~heathsnow@63-158-207-60.dia.static.qwest.net] has quit [Read error: Connection reset by peer]
12:10 <@ssd7> Chef Server 12.1 and Enterprise Chef Server 11.3.2 are on their way through the release pipeline right now.
12:10 -!- heathsnow [~heathsnow@63-158-207-60.dia.static.qwest.net] has joined #chef-hacking
12:10 < pbpolar> What is CBGB?
12:11 <@holoway> pbpolar: the Chef Board of Governance Board
12:11 <@ssd7> We will also be releaseing a new version of Chef Manage and Supermarket
12:11 -!- tkuchiki [~tkuchiki@softbank126066124204.bbtec.net] has joined #chef-hacking
12:11 <@holoway> pbpolar: an advisory committe to the maintainers, essentially
12:11 < kallistec> pbpolar: long version: https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/blob/master/rfc029-governance-policy.md
12:11 <@holoway> pbpolar: also, a very famous nightclub
12:11 <@ssd7> These contain an updated version of redis that addresses a security vulnerability.
12:11 < adamedx> ssd7 this captures chef server changes? https://github.com/chef/chef-server/blob/master/omnibus/CHANGELOG.md
12:12 <@ssd7> adamedx: Yes, there will also be a blog post once the releases are live.
12:12 < adamedx> cool
12:12 < adamedx> lots of deps got updated in chef server
12:12 < adamedx> things like postgres
12:13 < adamedx> so good time for everyone to get up to date
12:13 < adamedx> ssd7, thank you, looking forward to the release
12:13 < adamedx> I'm done nathenharvey ...
12:13 <@holoway> ok
12:13 <@ssd7> Yup.  A lot of updated dependencies that address CVEs.  We're mentioning redis specifically since the vulnerability there is serious (remote code execution) depending on your configuration.
12:13 <@holoway> lets move on to #118, which we tabled from last time
12:13 <@holoway> https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/118
12:14 <@holoway> this one has had lots of discussion
12:14 <@holoway> from my perspective, we have two very true things competing
12:14 <@holoway> in what is probably a false competition
12:14 <@holoway> the first is a need to add a configuration layer to ohai, which unlocks some near-term use cases, and doesn't have an impact on back-compat
12:15 <@holoway> the second is the need to improve the user experience and utility of ohai in general, both through the use cases adding a configuation layer unlocks and unifying the ways you provide configuration to ohai
12:15 <@coderanger> I don't see how we can reasonably claim those are separate tasks.
12:16 <@holoway> the second certainly will in its final form break back-compat (which I'm fine with - ohhai has been very stable)
12:16 <@coderanger> Unless the first comes with an unspoken "and makes UX worse"
12:16 <@holoway> the question is can we iterate to the solution, or are we forced into a large scale redesign effort that has no value without the final form complete
12:17 -!- cduong [~cduong@116.102.99.1] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
12:17 <@coderanger> I'm not saying this has to jump to final form, just that we need to _design_ the UX. The RFC should show what the goal is even if the first patches in ohai won't get all the way there.
12:17 <@holoway> my point of view is that we should make iterative progress on writing the configuration layer, and we should be moving the ball towards the improved user experience
12:17 <@coderanger> But make it clear where we are going.
12:18 <@coderanger> Or at least make it clear we thought through all the ways this is going to be used and think we have a design that can possibly result in a nice UX eventually.
12:18 <@coderanger> Because as written, this spec cannot.
12:18 -!- cduong [~cduong@116.102.99.1] has joined #chef-hacking
12:18 <@coderanger> And that I find dangerous at best.
12:19 < nathenharvey> but we'll also uncover new things about the UX by iterating.  we can't know what the final UX will be today
12:20 -!- epcim [~epcim@unassigned-84-246-166-26.ujezd.net] has joined #chef-hacking
12:20 <@coderanger> If it changes over time then fine, but that's not an excuse to have a proposal now.
12:20 <@holoway> I think we're arguing about things we essentially agree about. Nobody wants things to suck on purpose.
12:20 <@coderanger> Again, show that good UX is possible based on this design, not that it is 100% going to be X.
12:20 <@holoway> The only sticking point is there are clear issues that are blocked now by the layer not existing
12:20 <@coderanger> And show that we are building the tech design based on actual end-user use cases
12:20 <@coderanger> Not "users want to do things"
12:21 <@holoway> even if the design is wrong, we can change it
12:21 <@coderanger> Sure, but the whole point of having RFCs is to front load some of the work out so we can discuss design before implementation.
12:22 <@coderanger> It would be way easier to just not do that because everything can always change, but there is value in capturing this stuff ahead of time.
12:22 <@holoway> interestlingly enough, almost everyone involved in that RFC feels like the design as written moves the ball forward for important use cases and is a fine iterative step
12:22 <@holoway> I think you're right to argue for understanding the end state
12:22 <@holoway> that's a large improvement over the status quo
12:22 <@holoway> why don't we write two RFCs?
12:23 <@coderanger> I repeat the same question: why is configuring the hostname plugin substantively different from enabling the EC2 plugin?
12:23 <@coderanger> No one has yet answered that other than to say that the hints system has been misused
12:23 <@coderanger> which is a non-answer
12:23 <@holoway> coderanger: because the ec2 plugin subsystem already exists, has back-compat requirements, and is clearly insufficient long term
12:23 -!- epu [~epu@12.2.177.182] has joined #chef-hacking
12:24 <@coderanger> holoway: Okay, so why are you cool with "lol legacy" as the stated solution to this problem?
12:24 <@coderanger> Other than general faith that we'll fix it later
12:24 <@coderanger> which is fine, but kind of missing the point of having RFCs
12:24 <@holoway> back up
12:25 <@holoway> I'm not cool with "lol legacy" - I am cool with saying there is a path to enabling new functionaltiy that doesn't exist in a way that solves real user problems now
12:25 <@holoway> it doesn't solve *all user problems*
12:25 <@holoway> there is another problem, which is that the actual design needs to be re-thought to be more extensible and easier to rok
12:25 < pbpolar> I'm playing catchup here but does the new Ohai configuration syntax model a new syntax for the knife and client?  Or is it completely separate?
12:25 <@holoway> er grok
12:25 <@coderanger> Yes, and it will come at a cost of increased UX complexity until we do your "part two".
12:25 <@holoway> which is fine - you'll only eat that complexity if you opt in to the new functionality
12:25 -!- lamont_oc [~lamont_oc@c-71-231-26-189.hsd1.wa.comcast.net] has joined #chef-hacking
12:25 <@holoway> otherwise, you can feel free to ignore it
12:26 <@coderanger> holoway: And to be clear, we _could_ use the existing hints system for all this functionality
12:26 <@coderanger> holoway: It would already be integrated with all the tooling, has APIs in Ohai, etc
12:26 <@coderanger> It would be awkward and kind of odd, but my point is _so is this proposal_.
12:26 < pbpolar> It seems to imply that we'll have something like 'chef.log_level = :info'
12:27 <@holoway> coderanger: using the hints system does not iterate you toward a repalcement for that subsystem, which is one of the gaols
12:27 <@btm> pbpolar: it uses the existing chef/knife config, doesnt change them.
12:27 -!- wolstena [~pwolstenh@interweb.cucbc.com] has joined #chef-hacking
12:27 < kallistec> pbpolar: the config syntax is the same, we made chef-config into a separate component so other things (like ohai) can reuse it without depending on all of chef
12:27 <@coderanger> holoway: Sure, and if that is the long-term goal I want to see the RFC pay out an actual plan for that goal instead of stopping half way through.
12:27 <@holoway> ok, enough talk - here's the decision. I would like to see a design that unifies and lays out the user expereince for ohai
12:27 <@holoway> as a new rfc that builds on the existence of a configuration system
12:28 <@holoway> coderanger, you are obviously all sorts of fired up, so you would be a great candidate to get the ball rolling on that
12:28 < ranjib> +1, i dont agree that this RFC needs to lay out the long term plan, as long as it address current pain point in saneway, and opens up the possibility to iterate. which we dont have with hints
12:28 <@coderanger> Surely, I already suggested stuff in the comments to which no one has responded other than saying it isn't needed.
12:29 <@holoway> meanwhile, I approve this RFC, and we should start iterating on it now
12:29 <@coderanger> UX design for stuff like this is your payment to the end-users for making their life more complicated by added systems.
12:29 <@holoway> and unblock the functionality we need
12:29 <@coderanger> holoway: So you are saying we should design UX after we approve the technical design?
12:29 <@holoway> so, in short: start iterating on a config layer, and start the discussion about UX
12:30 <@coderanger> That is 100% backwards.
12:30 < pbpolar> So Ohai will have one syntax using '=' and Chef will continue to have the syntax that doesn't use '=' ?
12:30 < kallistec> pbpolar: ohai and chef have the exact same syntax
12:30 <@coderanger> Saying "make a new RFC" to shut me up doesn't change the fact that this is being done in a way that makes life for users actively worse for a while.
12:30 <@holoway> coderanger: we know we need a configuration layer regardless
12:30 <@coderanger> we _have_ one.
12:30 <@coderanger> It is called hints.
12:30 <@coderanger> If the functionality is critical, use that.
12:31 <@jtimberman> I dunno, kind of jumping in the middle of this but I don't see the hint system as a configuration layer.
12:31 <@holoway> I'm not proposing it to shut you up
12:31 <@coderanger> It is data in files that configures plugins.
12:31 <@coderanger> thats a config system :)
12:31 <@jtimberman> pedantics aside
12:31 <@holoway> enough of you putting motivation on other people, coderanger
12:31 -!- tkuchiki [~tkuchiki@softbank126066124204.bbtec.net] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
12:32 <@holoway> it's disagree and commit time - if you would like to take a pass at an RFC that describes the better user experience, I'm stoked to have you run it
12:32 < ranjib> coderanger: i dont know why you think like that. but btm 's comment on these same argument is fairly complete. we are not retrofitting hints in this RFC
12:32 < pbpolar> kallistec: From a user perspective, the syntax at L41 looks pretty diff from L44
12:32 <@holoway> if you are so irritated by this decision, I will ask someone else to do it
12:32 < pbpolar> https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/118/files#diff-aad40a91e3650ff3cefdd397e0c3e179R41
12:33 <@holoway> but we're done talking about it
12:34 < kallistec> pbpolar: I'm pretty sure ohai.thing("new value") also works, but this is consistent with how chef config works now
12:34 <@holoway> my motivation, since it's in question, is to actually improve the status quo without blocking what feels like obvious forward progress to everyone else (including me)
12:34 -!- dblessing [~dblessing@h210.236.190.173.static.ip.windstream.net] has quit [Ping timeout: 244 seconds]
12:34 <@holoway> okay - next up
12:34 <@holoway> coderanger: let us know if you want to write that rfc, or I'll have thom take it
12:35 < kallistec> pbpolar: this is built on a "config context" thing in mixlib-config, which is how stuff like knife[:whatever] = "new value" works
12:35 <@coderanger> holoway: I've got no time for unpaid work currently.
12:35 <@holoway> no prioblem
12:35 <@holoway> thom can write it and you can weigh in
12:35 < kallistec> pbpolar: it's fairly permissive in terms of syntaxes allowed since we had to retrofit some stuff that came about with knife plugins in an "organic" way
12:36 <@thom> sure
12:36 <@holoway> (while I'm being explicit about my motivations - I wasn't trying to extract unpaid labor, I was offering a passionate advocate first dibs on the UX)
12:36 <@coderanger> holoway: I know, just not inclined to go above and beyond on this one at this point, I've put all my suggestions in the existing ticket.
12:37 < pbpolar> Ok - I know a lot of new users find the structure of our config files pretty confusing, so was trying to determine if this make things any worse (I don't think so) and the gains from having Ohai behave on the CLI like it does during a Chef run is a nice win
12:38 < nathenharvey> next up is 128 but that looks like it's approved and ready for merge just not yet merged.  Add 'property' to resource - https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/128
12:38 <@holoway> coderanger: absolutely - I made it clear in my comment that we should take your input into account
12:38 <@holoway> ya
12:38 <@holoway> I regret calling everything an attribute in the first place
12:38 <@holoway> :)
12:38 -!- tkuchiki [~tkuchiki@softbank126066124204.bbtec.net] has joined #chef-hacking
12:38 -!- geggam [~geggam@108-218-203-177.uvs.sntcca.sbcglobal.net] has joined #chef-hacking
12:38 <@holoway> https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/128
12:39 <@holoway> I see no rational reason this shouldn't be approved, hence I just approve it
12:39 <@holoway> next up
12:39 <@holoway> https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/130
12:39 <@holoway> moving openbsd into tier 2
12:40 <@holoway> we have a maintainer who is active, I say we move this into tier 2
12:40 <@holoway> anyone against?
12:40 < lamont_oc> +1
12:40 < nathenharvey> 10 minute warning (for this meeting, not for raising an objection)
12:40 <@jtimberman> +1
12:40 < tBunnyMan> +1
12:40 < ranjib> +1
12:40 <@holoway> ok
12:42 <@holoway> I approve that PR pending him adding himself as the OpenBSD LT
12:42 <@holoway> next up
12:42 <@holoway> https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/129
12:42 <@holoway> removing 10.04 ubuntu as a supported platform
12:43 <@jtimberman> holoway: iirc we don't need Lt for Tier 2, only maintainers (not to say we can't have a Lt for Tier 2 platforms)
12:43 -!- dblessing [~dblessing@h210.236.190.173.static.ip.windstream.net] has joined #chef-hacking
12:43 <@btm> jtimberman: +1
12:44 <@holoway> sure - afaik, he's not a maintainer at all yet
12:44 <@thom> he's not, no
12:44 <@holoway> so it's not tier 2 until he is at least that
12:44 <@jtimberman> I'll follow up since I'm still working on the "all supported platforms must have a maintainer/lieutenant" thing :)
12:44 < lamont_oc> i haven't had time to update the tiers definitions with my thoughts on that one and distinguish between things-we-build-on and things-we-test-and-support-cookbooks-on
12:44 <@btm> yay
12:45 < nathenharvey> 5 minutes
12:45 <@thom> yeah, i think 129 probably ought to remain on holding pending lamont writing some words
12:45 <@thom> s/ing//
12:45 <@holoway> ok
12:46 <@holoway> agreed - lets let the next show of cards come up before deciding
12:46 <@holoway> in general, we should get rid of it
12:46 <@holoway> when the vendor says so, but we can use our own discernment
12:46 <@holoway> the fact that we have ancient systems in production at Chef Software is not a reason to keep it, btw
12:46 <@holoway> we should do the work to upgrade them like everyone else on the internet :)
12:46 <@jtimberman> right?
12:47 < adamedx> I think 10.04 is largely gone from Chef Software fwiw holoway
12:47 < lamont_oc> we've still got a couple 10.04 virts kicking around (not including old-ci 10.04s for build/test)
12:48 < pbpolar> 10.04 is largely gone from our customer base
12:48 <@holoway> ok - lets push 135/136 to next meeting
12:48 <@coderanger> Wasn't the sympa machine 10.04?
12:48 <@jtimberman> coderanger: we don't speak its name
12:48 <@holoway> john keiser has some replying to do on those threads anyway - lots of un-naswered questions
12:48 < pwm> adamedx 10.04 is totally gone from Chef Software ;)
12:48 < adamedx> :)
12:48 <@jtimberman> btw, as said last week I'd have an update on the maintainer/lt for tier 1 and 2 supported platforms, which is in this PR: https://github.com/chef/chef/pull/3525 - I just added OpenBSD
12:49 < kierrr> cyclops wishes it was 10.04
12:49 <@holoway> cyclops is my jam
12:49  * holoway hugs that server
12:49 <@jtimberman> holoway: it's totally your jam ;)
12:49 <@holoway> for sure a pet
12:49 <@jtimberman> it has a name!
12:49 <@holoway> and it's name was robert paulson
12:49 <@jtimberman> careful about hugging it thoguh you might get covered in dust bunnies
12:49 <@holoway> ok
12:50 < nathenharvey> so, we'll revisit PR-129 Ubuntu 10.04 next week and that bring us to time for the end of the meeting
12:50 <@jtimberman> ;)
12:50 <@holoway> nathenharvey: and 135/136 both need more discussion on thread
12:50 <@thom> thanks all. and thanks holoway for adding to my only moderately overflowing todo list ;)
12:50 <@holoway> thom: feel free to delegate
12:50 <@holoway> :)
12:51 <@holoway> I actually don't care *who* writes it :)
12:51 <@thom> no, i didn't really think you did :)
12:51 -!- cduong [~cduong@116.102.99.1] has quit []
12:51 < nathenharvey> thanks everyone, talk to you next week
12:51 <@holoway> see you all next week
12:51 < nathenharvey> ***** MEETING ENDS *****
