Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:00 UTC

### Community Update - Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey)

* Community Summits tickets now on sale
  * [London 12-13 October](https://summit.chef.io/london/)
  * [Habitat in Seattle - Oct 25](https://www.cvent.com/c/express/ded174e7-ed28-4f43-bf8a-642c782dc05f)
  * [Seattle 26-27 October](https://summit.chef.io/)
* [Adopting the DCO](https://blog.chef.io/2016/09/19/introducing-developer-certificate-of-origin/)
* [CBGB update](https://blog.chef.io/2016/09/21/chef-board-governance-meeting/)
* mail sent directly to discourse at chef@lists.opscode.com was being dropped, that has been fixed

### Software Updates

* InSpec 1.0 scheduled for next week
* Chefspec 5.2 has been released with the ability to modify the node object before the converge and a fix for the yum_repository matcher
* habitat 0.9.3 was released Friday
* chef 12.14.77 got released, but the fix to the systemd regression was still regressing, so there will be another follow-on release to fix that
* Chef Server 12.9 is expected to be released today

### Review open RFCs

* [https://chef.github.io/chef-rfc/](https://chef.github.io/chef-rfc/)

###[PR 218 - CBGB meets twice a year.](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/218)

* Status:  On going
* Discussion:  more CBGB members need to weigh in for approval

###[PR 221 - Generate GitHub pages for RFC](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/221)

* Status:  Approved

###[PR 222 - Adding Google to allowed prefixes](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/222)

* Status:  On going
* Discussion:  Not really up for discussion.  Can be approved outside of our developer meetings.

###[PR 225 - Update rfc062-exit-status.md](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/225)

* Status:  In review period.  Ready for voting during 6-Oct-2016 meeting.

###[PR 226 - Calendar Versioning for Chef](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/226)

* Status:  On Going.  
* Discussion:
  * In review period.  Not ready for voting until 6-Oct-2016 meeting.
  * This looks to be a very controversial suggestion, please take the time to understand and weigh-in on this.

Meeting adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:53 UTC

## Next Meeting:

[Thursday, September 29, 2016 9AM-9:50AM PDT](http://everytimezone.com/#2016-9-29,240,cn3)