stevenmurawski [11:00] 
**** Meeting Starts **** (edited)

Welcome to the developer slack meeting for Thursday May 18th!

[11:01] 
Looks like @nathenharvey isn't around, so a brief overview of today's agenda

[11:02] 
We'll have a quick community update, a chance to highlight any software releases, and then get into the RFC PR review.

[11:02] 
So, on the community front, next week is ChefConf!

[11:03] 
On behalf of the community engineering team, I can say we are looking forward to spending some great time with any of y'all who can make it.

[11:03] 
Do we have any software release updates?

coderanger [11:03 AM] 
Chef 13.1 and ChefDK 2.0 will be Very Soonâ„¢


[11:04] 
New revs of Manage and InSpec over the past few days

stevenmurawski [11:04 AM] 
Thanks @coderanger!

[11:04] 
I know we've also had a number of Habitat releases recently as well.

[11:05] 
Any other releases we want to highlight?

lamont [11:05 AM] 
@coderanger i think that is more likely Soon than Very Soon now

tas50 [11:05 AM] 
There was a new release of stove with artifactory support


coderanger [11:06 AM] 
And new major release of Berks


lamont [11:06 AM] 
(we had a bit of a hardware issue yesterday that is going to cause schedule delays)


stevenmurawski [11:07 AM] 
Thanks @coderanger @tas50 and @lamont

[11:08] 
We are moving right along today..  There are no pending action items noted from last week.

[11:09] 
There are no new PRs, but we've got two still open for discussion

[11:09] 
First up https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/267

[11:10] 
@sigje or anyone have any additional comments?

[11:11] 
Ok.. moving on

[11:11] 
Next is https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/266

[11:12] 
@wrightp or anyone else any further comments?

wrightp [11:12 AM] 
I've updated the rfc per suggestions made last week

coderanger [11:13 AM] 
So one thing we need to work out still is how to make this work with non-internet-y systems, at least as much as it works today

[11:14] 
I think it should probably be fine, right?

[11:14] 
You would set download_url

[11:14] 
And mirror the package files internally

cheeseplus [11:15 AM] 
If anything this will at least make it super clear how to do it in non-internet-y situations

wrightp [11:15 AM] 
Right. Also, I have a PR for supporting http proxies in mixlib install. I can see adding that at some point in the future

coderanger [11:16 AM] 
It's more often fully airgapped Jenkins than a proxy situation, but since we currently don't handle that super well I won't lose much sleep

[11:16] 
But we should have an answer ready :slightly_smiling_face:

wrightp [11:17 AM] 
tl;dr download url support will be available for all platforms

stevenmurawski [11:18 AM] 
Sweet.  Any other questions/comments/clarification?

coderanger [11:18 AM] 
:+1:

stevenmurawski [11:20 AM] 
Ok, we've swept through today's agenda.  Any other topics that need to be talked about?

coderanger [11:20 AM] 
ChefConfffffffff

stevenmurawski [11:21 AM] 
It's coming up fast!!  I'm only there on Monday, so looking forward to saying hi to as many folks as I can, but there'll be a good number of folks to meet and talk with throughout the event.

[11:22] 
And don't forget the hack day on Thursday.  Take some of the inspiration from Tuesday/Wednesday and write some code!

[11:22] 
Now, with ChefConf next week, we are going to take a two week break from these meetings.

[11:22] 
The next meeting will be Thursday June 8th - http://everytimezone.com/#2017-6-8,240,cn3

[11:23] 
Unless we've got any other commentary, (I'll give it a few minutes), then we are ready to wrap up  for today.

[11:26] 
Thank you everyone for joining us today!
**** Meeting Ends ****