Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) 17:00

### Community Update (nathenharvey)

* CBGB will meet in mid-February
* CFP for ChefConf will open 1 February
* ChefConf will include a one-day Community Summit

### Chef Client and Server update (adamedx)

* [chef-client 12.6.0 was released in December](https://www.chef.io/blog/2015/12/21/chef-client-12-6-0-release-announcement/)
* We are working on simplifying the process of building and releasing Chef and mainstreaming 64-bit ruby on Windows chef-client
* a future meeting / RFC topic will revolve around changes to some Chef defaults (e.g.,  default installation location on Windows for instance)


### [PR-175 - Automatic Versioning](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/175)
* Status:  On-going
* Discussion:
  * we want the build system to automatically bump the last version for each build
  * Discussion around which type of tags should be used
  * Will continue the discussion as part of the PR and revisit next week.

### [PR-171 - Chef, upgrade thyself](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/171)
* Status:  Approved
* Discussion:
  * All current feedback has been incorporated
  * RFC updated
    * most everyone desires the upgrade to run right at the start of the chef run
    * fleshed out how one would control the upgrade using attributes

### [PR-172 - draft of rfc around handling cookbook abandonment on Supermarket](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/172)
* Status:  Approved
* Discussion:
  * All current feedback has been incorporated
  * if a cookbook is up for adoption for 6 months+, it automatically gets transferred to chef-brigade

### Other business

* a request that Chef Software write an email to the dev list to let people know about the omnibus split
  * TODO:  Nathen Harvey (natheharvey) to post a message to the chef-dev category on discourse.chef.io

Meeting adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) 17:51

Next Meeting:

[Thursday, January 21, 2016 9AM-9:50AM PST](http://everytimezone.com/#2016-01-21,300,cn3)
