Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:00

### Chef Software Update
* Adam (holoway) is on vacation for the month of April
* Jon Cowie (jonlives) is the designated project lead until Adam returns

### Community Update
* Chef Community Summit - http://summit.chef.io - October 14-15, 2015 in Seattle
* Scouting locations for the London summit, details as they're available
* New Supermarket feature coming soon: view all cookbooks that are up for adoption
* Please take the Cookbook Survey - http://bit.ly/chefconf2015-cookbook-survey

### Chef Client and Server Update
* chef-client 12.3 released using a new release process
* chef-dk 0.5.0 released
* chef-server repository merge is happening
* plan on doing an RC for the next server release as it has some bigger changes.


### [Telemetry subsystem : Capture and expose chef run performance metrics](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/120)
* Status:  Ranjib to restructure and we'll review at the next meeting
* Disucssion:
  * This can't be built as a report handler
  * how slim can we make the change to core Chef?
  * can just add whatever events are missing and add a thing like client-side reporting class
  * advantage to doing this in an event handler externally is it will still work with older chef, just without the new event data
  * the ability to immediately turn on telemetry and actually have it report somewhere, is a huge operability feature
  * drop statsd as a dependency
  * Ranjib will restructure this RFC:
    * any profiling information will be exposed via the existing event dispatch system, and a profiler class would be added to core which displays sensible default profiling stuff to the console

### [Define actions directly on resources](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/121)
* Status:  Review next week
* Discussion:
  * Key facts about "action":
    * it's a recipe (you can type file and execute and etc.) much like use_inline_resources
    * resource attributes are in scope in the action, so if you have attribute :path you can type "path" instead of "new_resource.path"
    * no backward compatibility issues
    * does introduce yet another way to create custom resources
    * inline_recipe resource is still there, and i still think you'd be better off with a way to wrap resources with defaults and not open up a new resource collection
    * Please continue to post feedback in the PR.
    * Will review again next week.

### [Tracking for Standards Track RFCs](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/106)
* Status:  Ready for merge
* Disucssion:
  * should we mandate an issue as the tracking URL for ease of reference?

### [Initial draft of an ohai configuration specification](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/118)
* Status:  Moved to next meeting's agenda
* Discussion:
  * please comment on #118 if you're in favor of this being approved in the interim until kallistec's PR is more developed etc

### [Remove method_missing and make Chef::Resource unspecial](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/117)
* Status:  Moved to next meeting's agenda

Meeting Adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:51


Next Meeting:

[Thursday, April, 30, 2015 9AM-9:50AM PDT](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=%23chef-hacking+developers%27+meeting&iso=20150430T12&p1=419&am=50)