Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 16:00 UTC

### Chef Software Update
* Adam (holoway) will be on vacation for the month of April
* Jon Cowie (jonlives) will be the designated project lead until Adam returns

### Community Update
* ChefConf next week
* We held two public postmortems on recent releases.  Please participate in these when you can.

### Chef Client and Server Update
* Updated Chef Server last week to 12.06
* this week we released Chef Client 12.2.0.rc.2 on RubyGems, please try the RC
* New on Test Kitchen and Provisioning coming at ChefConf and before the next IRC meeting.

### [Jk/in parallel](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/3)
* Status:  Ready for merge after recommended updates
* Discussion:
  * Add the copyright notice
  * We should state that "future things" sections will require a new RFC since they are underspecified

### [mixlib-config 3 RFC](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/11)
* Status:  Withdrawn

### [Roadmap](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/105)
* Status:  Merged
* Discussion:
  * Is the year/quarter necessary?
  * Agreed to try in it's current form and iterate
  * btm will make the initial file
  
### [Tracking for Standards Track RFCs](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/106)
* Status:  Not ready, will review at next meeting
* Discussion:
  * Some minor tweaks required
  * More commenting asynchronously in the PR then ready for merge

### [Automatically assign a reviewer to a new PR](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/107)
* Status: Ready after one change
* Discussion:
  * This will help enforce the [requirement that maintainers respond to PR's with 48 hours](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/blob/master/rfc030-maintenance-policy.md#maintainer)
  * Need a way to be on vacation

### [ohai identity attributes RFC](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/108)
* Status:  Continue discussion via the PR and at the next meeting
* Discussion:
  * Eventual intention is to implement both proposals
  * Need to better understand current and new output on main supported systems.  How "breaking" is this change?
  
### [GitHub Issues Workflow for Chef](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/36)
* Status:  Merged

### PRs Moved to next meeting's agenda
* [Lcg/node state separation](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/100)
* [Nested recipe support](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/102)
* [Ohai 7 cloud network enhancements](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/8)

### Meeting Format Change
*  These meetings will be 50 minutes long moving forward.

Meeting Adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) - 17:02 UTC

**NOTE**:  No meeting on April 2, 2015.  Join us at ChefConf for Adam's keynote!

[Thursday, April, 9, 2015 9AM-10AM PDT](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=%23chef-hacking+developers%27+meeting&iso=20150409T12&p1=419&ah=1)