# Old Business

## Write an RFC that details our plans for nightly builds
* Still needs doing and assiged Legion of builds and Quality and Tools @ Chef
* Will allow faster progress for open source contributions
* It will lead to having discussion about dark launching to control feature release

## [Dialects in Chef](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/71)
* Adding support for dialects, not adding any new dialects
* New hooks internally for custom client implementations
* Approved and ready to merge.

# New Business
## [RFC for Ruby data bag items](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/79)
* Discussion
  * Several folks believe data bags should be just "dumb" data
  * One of the drivers of the RFC was to support comments, which json allows
  * It was felt that this should be part of the dialect RFC, since it impacts how data representations are pushed to the Chef server and available for use by the client.
  * Many of the current tools (read knife) handle converting .rb to .json 
  * Using Ruby for data bags is a bad idea in practice, but making it possible can lead to cleaner code underneath (like the dialects project)
* Discussion was tabled for next meeting

## [XML file editing as a first class resource](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/81)
* Discussion
  * Ranjib offers to close, due to problems with nokogiri on solaris and aix
  * Rexml is offered as an option
  * Performance could be a concern
* Ranjib to implement a prototype in a cookbook first


## [Allow specifying partial templates during bootstrap](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/82)
* Discussion
  * Too many cli flags already
  * Implementation is unclear
  * Refactoring the core template to make them easier to extend is good
  * Possibly expose the standard template in functions that are easier to use in complete custom template
* Discussion was tabled for next week

## [Recipe DSL method for event handlers](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/83)
* Discussion
  * DSL should use on_event rather than on (to minimize conflicts)
  * Much love and appreciation for the idea
  * Problem with extending the recipe DSL is that they can't trigger on earlier events, just as the recipe gets processed
  * Maybe event handlers should be wired up in the config file?
* Discussion tabled with ranjib and kallistec doing follow up

## [Add client_compat field to cookbook metadata](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/84)
* Discussion
  * General agreement
  * The RFC should detail how the client behaves when there client version is below the minimum supported by the cookbook.
  * General agreement was that the client run should die
* Discussion was tabled till next time with a follow up of adding behavior of processing cookbooks by the client to the scope of the rfc

## Open Sourcing opscode-webui2 (now chef-manage)
* Discussion
  * This is proprietary code, and no appropriate license yet to share it publicly
  * Holoway is working with the CEO and $lawyer to identify a way to expose that code, but it is not likely a quick resolution
  * The location of documentation and process for bug tracking have been detailed on the Chef Docs site and have been mailed out to the chef and chef-dev mailing lists.
* There is a repo for issues and docs/readme
  * https://docs.chef.io/community_contributions.html#issues-and-bug-reports
  * https://github.com/opscode/chef-manage-issues

# Community update
* Community team is dead, long live the community engineering team
* Stevenmurawski, someara, lamont_oc and Mark Anderson are the new community engineering team and report to Nathen Harvey
* the tl;dr is that we wanted to have a team who was responsible for community engineering interaction, and then also got to behave like OSS engineers themselves

# Chef Software Update
* Nothing new that wasn't covered above

# Chef Client & Server Update
* Adamedx was not present

# Dismissed 