Meeting called to order by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) 16:00

### Community Update (nathenharvey)

* We're working with the folks elected to the CBGB to be sure everyone can accept their nomination and is able to participate
* Chef is having a all-company meeting the first week of January in Seattle.  If any of you find yourselves in that neighborhood we're hosting an [open-house / meetup on Tuesday, Jan 5](http://www.meetup.com/Chef-Meetup/events/227204402/)

### Chef Software update (thom)

* Chef is wrapping up the year, heading into a kickoff in January

### Chef Client and Server update (adamedx)

*  finalizing the year's last chef-client release so we can get it out next week
  * fix for a regression around resource execution order that was introduced in the last release (12.5.1) that has been addressed for compatibilty with pre 12.5.1 cookbooks
  * On Windows:
    * installer is much faster (especially on server skus)
    * full functionality of the windows package resource from the windows cookbook has finally migrated to core
    * all the non-msi installers will now work using the package resource in core Chef

### [PR-170 - Add RFC for order of operations in compound actions with inline resources](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/170)
* Status: Approved

### [PR-171 - Chef, upgrade thyself](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/171)
* Status: On-going
* Discussion:
  * _When_ should the upgrade happen?
  * Thom will [post the the mailing list](https://discourse.chef.io/t/chef-client-upgrades/7421) and update the RFC
  * We will revisit at the next meeting.

### [PR-172 - draft of rfc around handling cookbook abandonment on Supermarket](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/172)
* Status: On-going
* Discussion:
  * Times for moving a cookbook should be measured in months, not weeks
  * May want an RFC or log for capturing when cookbooks were moved
  * start with a policy for cookbooks that are marked for adoption
  * Update and revisit the RFC

### [PR-161 - Cookbook Segment Deprecation](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/161)
* Status:  Approved

### [PR-169 - New signing protocol allowing hashing algorithms other than SHA1](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/169)
* Status: Approved

Meeting adjourned by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey) 16:27

Next Meeting:

[Thursday, December 17, 2015 9AM-9:50AM PST](http://everytimezone.com/#2015-12-17,240,cn3)
