# Chef Developers' IRC Meeting

Wednesday, 15 October 2014 1500-1600 UTC

Moderator: Adam Jacob

Secretary: Nathen Harvey

## Proceedings
Meeting called to order - 15:01 - nathenharvey

* Discussion of [Chef 12 Attributes](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/53)
  * lots of discussion around Mash#delete
  * throw an error when you use `node[:foo].delete`
  * node.delete(:foo) should delete :foo at all precedence levels

  * A couple changes before we accept:
    1.  node["foo"].delete("bar") should throw an exception pointing you at the new API
    1.  node.delete("foo", "bar") should delete from all precedence levels
    1.  node.delete_*("foo", "bar") should work
    1.  Args to the delete methods should support the syntax from RFC 18 https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/blob/master/rfc018-attribute-syntax.md
    1. Merge when the syntax as proposed works, then add RFC 18.

  * **ACTION ITEM** Complete 1-3 listed above (jaymzh)
  * **ACTION ITEM** PR 53 is ready for merge once 1-3 are done in the text
* [Arbitrary cookbook identifiers](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/20) - PR20 - is ready for merge
* ["local_mode by default" proposal](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/48) - Approved for merge
* [Add multitenancy support to Chef client config and local mode](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/49) - Approved for merge
* [Proposal to remove HTTP config file](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/50) - Approved for merge


## Community Update

* [Chef Community Summit London](https://github.com/opscode/chef-summit-2014/wiki/Chef-Community-Summit---London---2014) underway
* 2 new [community advocates](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/blob/master/rfc020-community-guidelines.md)
  * miketheman for serverfault
  * jonlives for irc

#### chef-client update

* ChefDK 0.3.0 shipped two weeks ago
* [Chef 11.16.4 was shipped with some bug fixes](https://www.getchef.com/blog/2014/10/08/chef-client-release-11-16-4/)


#### Chef Server update

* working on shipping Chef 12. After the Seattle Community summit we triaged all the issue and have an internal roadmap to address all that we thing are important enough to fix for the GA.
* Expect more RCs
* **ACTION ITEM** open the google doc, maybe, and mail the url out (after you sanitize it) - mmzyk - DONE - [Chef Server 12 Issue Triage and Progress Update](https://docs.google.com/a/opscode.com/document/d/1xqVTMt1_8q23VCkQOQGFcMMvSf3ZKj1wjsmx8O7vqRI/edit)
* Response to POODLE [posted to the blog](https://www.getchef.com/blog/2014/10/14/security-response-ssl-poodle-attack-and-mitigation/)
* Provisioning update
  * A new ASW native metal gem has been written with support for way more things (like load balancers)
  * Hoping for a full RC of the chef provisioning resources (machine, machine_image, and drivers)
  * Then move on to 2.0 and "Provisioning All the Things"

#### Governance and Maintenance Policy Update

* **ACTION ITEM** - Put some updates into the RFC (holoway)
* **ACTION ITEM** - Write a section on adding veto appeals process (jonlives)
* **ACTION ITEM** - Publish a blog post and send a message to the mailing list about this RFC (holoway)
* **ACTION ITEM** - Review and update the [Chef Maintainer Interest](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I1GeXy0BHfy2grP2P46Ob1HAATmH9Xr8v46bSvElFSA/edit?usp=sharing) document.  Will not be finalized until after the policy RFC has been adopted.


Meeting called to order - 16:01 - holoway
