thom Mar 16, 2017 12:00 
Ohai Chefs!
today’s meeting is hosted by me, since Nathen is running a workshop
We’ve got 3 RFCs in the queue, https://github.com/chef/chef-community-slack-meetings/blob/master/2017-03-16-agenda.md
Of course, the big event coming up for our community is ChefConf which will include a Community Summit, workshops, typical conference stuff like keynotes and breakout sessions, a community celebration, a hack day, and, of course, *you*! all the details about ChefConf can be found at https://chefconf.chef.io/2017/ Contributors get a discounted ticket ($750) using the code GotChef17 And we have a diversity scholarship that is available for anyone from an underrepresented community. Applications for the scholarship are available at https://chefconf.chef.io/2017/diversity-scholarship/
Software releases that I know about: * The windows cookbook has had a major overhaul * Foodcritic 10.0 * Supermarket 2.9.15 * Automate 07.85 * ChefSpec 6.1
Anyone got anything else they’d like to share?

stevenmurawski Mar 16, 2017 12:04
Habitat 0.19.0 was released last week

tas50 Mar 16, 2017 12:05
Windows cookbook 3.0 which was a complete rewrite was released

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:06
Ok, thanks. Let’s move on then. Please take a moment to review the state of our current RFCs. I’ve now marked RFC46 and RFC81 as replaced

cheeseplus Mar 16, 2017 12:06
openldap cookbook 3.0 also a rewrite released

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:08
Right, our first RFC is PR 252 - add some critical chef-sugar helpers
https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/252
@lamont you’re up

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:08
i was about to get more coffee

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:09
we can do 253 which ought to be pretty non-controversial

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:09
oh we can do 252
it seems like its reasonably non-controversial though

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:10
yeah, i think it’s really a slam dunk, since they’ve all been out there for some time

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:10
i need to figure out a way to write words so that mac_os_x doesn’t get added to bsd_based? by someone being overly pedantic
because that’s totally correct and totally useless

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:11
killing a dependency ++
heh, yes
i dislike fedora_based but other than that I’m down
anyone else?

cheeseplus Mar 16, 2017 12:11
I too dislike fedora_based
but agree on osx

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:12
fedora_based is the one that i’ll use the most
it is literally the most useful one of those

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:13
you know my concern about this one. I think maybe we should have helpers around these, but they maybe aren’t exposed to cookbook authors?

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:13
that is literally driving this PR — because i can’t seem to ever get that with platform_family
its totally useful for cookbook authors as ell

cheeseplus Mar 16, 2017 12:13
I can see it being useful, I just feel the association is weird and will be lost on most
I almost always have to case for amazon by itself via platform ime
but I'm sure it is useful

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:14
uhm

tas50 Mar 16, 2017 12:14
it would be nice to avoid the amazon vs. rhel vs. fedora mess
since amazon has basically made their own totally different distro at this point

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:14
so pretty sure those all have /etc/sysconfig while suse and everything else doesn't

tas50 Mar 16, 2017 12:14
by not using systemd

cheeseplus Mar 16, 2017 12:15
suse has sysconfig
March 16, 2017

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:15
amazon doesn't use systemd?

tas50 Mar 16, 2017 12:15
nope

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:15
switches everything to amazon :troll:

cheeseplus Mar 16, 2017 12:15
(opensuse leap at least cause I just implemented that)

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:15
thing is that systemd-less amazon looks just like systemd-less fedora and rhel, its not a significant difference

ssd Mar 16, 2017 12:15
What is the main similarity that we are trying to capture with fdora_based?

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:15
package manager?

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:15
FFS
i literally have no idea what planet you all are living on

ssd Mar 16, 2017 12:18
I'm +1 on this RFC. However, I don't think it unreasonable that people see this: > fedora_based? -- this will include the platform_family of rhel, fedora, and amazon and aren't sure on it since if you don't deal with that very day it doesn't make sense immediately.
But, the RFC is useful enough that I'm fine if it goes in. It might be nice to have some guidance somewhere on "when should I used fedora_based?"

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:18
amazon just isn’t that different from fedora and rhel when you care it to suse

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:19
but it is sufficiently different that you almost always have to special case it

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:19
no you really don't

troyready Mar 16, 2017 12:20
No more than cases for Centos 5 vs 6 etc in my experience fwiw

cheeseplus Mar 16, 2017 12:20
I just did in a cookbook

ssd Mar 16, 2017 12:20
My problem isn't with a helper that is practically useful, my only worry is that it is semantically kinda confusing since it is basically an untrue statement.

cheeseplus Mar 16, 2017 12:20
because of sysconfig differences in vars

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:20
for example, they don’t even call their packages the same: https://github.com/chef-cookbooks/php/blob/877c38aed4e12c44a23a49fe215dbd7c32e2fa39/attributes/default.rb#L63

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:21
sigh

ssd Mar 16, 2017 12:21
But, if there isn't a better name, I'm fine with a useful helper, let's just write the documentation clearly.

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:21
that’s getting way into application-land

cheeseplus Mar 16, 2017 12:21
I'm with @ssd on +1 but sematnically confusing
so make sure we doc it

ssd Mar 16, 2017 12:22
Can the doc say "cross-platform cookbooks are a lie, turn back now!"?

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:22
they don't already?
differences between platforms are subtle and nuanced, and oftentimes hard to predict.

ssd Mar 16, 2017 12:22
Are there any -1s?

cheeseplus Mar 16, 2017 12:22
*crazy smiling intensifies*

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:23
chef is way in application land. we’re trying to provide something for our users here, and i continue to be concerned that people will use fedora_based and then get pissed of because they still have to special case amazon, so they wind up doing when amazon_linux? ; when enterprise_linux?, fedora? ; end regardless

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:23
is there anything specifically in chef-sugar that we're not bringing over that should be called out in the RFC that isn't?

coderanger Mar 16, 2017 12:23
Just my comment on macos but that's not a true -1 just something I think we should handle :)

robbkidd Mar 16, 2017 12:23
Do not meddle in the affairs of platforms for you are crunchy and taste good with ketchup.

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:24
but if you have to special case things you have to handle unique cases for fedora? and rhel? and amazon?
fedora_based? is for when you don’t have special cases
chef_hostname won’t care and most of the providers internal to chef-client won’t care

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:25
special cases like that are mainly package names, and to a lesser degree, service names, yes?
as far as writing cookbooks goes

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:25
and chef is not just an application deployment framework but also handles system configuration (and has its roots in system configuration)

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:26
package names, repo urls, service names, init scripts …

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:27
so the consumer of fedora_based? is for system engineers managing those systems — where there’s considerable differences between SuSE and fedora-derived distros because of YaST, while if you stay away from application things like php and if you don’t get hung up on dnf-vs-yum and systemd-vs-init i’m going to approach amazon the same way i do rhel and fedora

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:27
anyway, i’m still +1 on this, i have reservations on the usefulness and the user-friendliness of fedora_based, and i’d like to see that helper, specifically, called out and documented so it’s used mindfully

martinisoft Mar 16, 2017 12:28
I will add that I dig the node.in? helper for environment shortcuts. But I dig the RFC’s proposal for the shortcuts. Can always add more later.

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:28
I'm +1 on this RFC, fwiw, aside from my comment earlier about whether we're leaving things out and if those things should be clarified in this RFC for scoping purposes.

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:28
‘things’?
oh i called that out, pretty explicitly

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:29
i don't have a better qualifier, i haven't used THAT much of chef-sugar itself to know what the RFC leaves out.
ok

martinisoft Mar 16, 2017 12:29
I’m a +1 as well, I think it’s quite useful overall.

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:30
@lamont the comment about method_missing in the attribute syntax? i only see that as a GH comment.

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:31
i thought i wrote some words

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:31
if they're in the rfc text i'm missing them. 😄

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:31
i wrote them in my head at some point
+We will not be pulling in the debian_before_squeeze? style of platform and platform_version helpers +at this time (simply limiting the scope, not a statement that we do or do not eventually want them).
okay i wrote it for those

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:32
yeah seeing that

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:33
yeah i could make that apply more generally

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:33
i think it would be useful to quell future inquiries like "why isn't thing included?"

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:34
yeah i was clearly going down that route i just wrote words that only applied to those helpers and not the whole rest of it

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:34
and what of the future maintenance of these helpers in chef-sugar itself? would they be removed from it, i presume?

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:34
that was a comment:
"I didn't address removing the helpers from chef-sugar and future-proofing against deviations between chef-sugar and core chef. Obviously the intention is that at some point in the future chef-sugar drops support for chef < 13 and then deletes all these helpers."

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:35
ah i didn't see that as it's a comment outside the code view 😄

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:35
yeah i didn’t know what language to use in the RFC
i also felt it was kind of inevitable that just happens

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:36
being explicit is probably good here, since it does affect a library used very widely 🙂

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:36
yeah it should be perfectly transparent though

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:37
OK. So Lamont, please add some language to the RFC around future plans for sugar

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:37
well that’s a larger scope

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:37
we should move on, since we can’t vote on this RFC until next week

ssd Mar 16, 2017 12:37
Do we maintain chef-sugar? If not, I would just leave that out. Who know what Seth may or may not have the time or inclination to do.

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:37
right

coderanger Mar 16, 2017 12:37
We do, effectively

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:38
seth still owns it, so i was staying away from writing up policy around it
tim effectively maintains it

tas50 Mar 16, 2017 12:38
I have merge / release on it
but we don’t maintain it

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:38
ok, future plans for sugar wrt to the stuff that is moving into chef. just so people know what’s going on, per the conversation above

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:38
‘effectively'

tas50 Mar 16, 2017 12:38
seth has expressed the desire for us to merge it in

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:39
yeah, i’m pretty sure he’d be okay with this

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:40
OK, next up is 253- exclude doc contributions from the DCO: https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/253

lamont Mar 16, 2017 12:40
anyway i’ll add some scope words and i’ll write some words around futures

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:40
thanks

tas50 Mar 16, 2017 12:40
this is just clarifying the obvious fix policy right?
I believe that already specifically calls out documentation and testing since those don’t include IP

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:41
adam is teaching a workshop, but: we already exclude the chef-web-docs project from needing DCO, and we should apply the same process to docs that are contained in code repositories
it means that doc contributions aren’t required to state that they’re obvious fixes
so, yes

tas50 Mar 16, 2017 12:42
k I support this then. It avoids me saying “merging under obvious fix rule” every time

ssd Mar 16, 2017 12:42
Can the DCO bot handle such a change currently or do we need a TODO for that

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:42
i think the DCO bot has a "does the commit have signed off by?" check

ssd Mar 16, 2017 12:43
(maybe not an immediate todo, the humans can just use their 👀 for now)

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:43
the dco bot has support for obvious fix, but not docs

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:43
not a "does the commit have a signed off by for any non commented code or files changed ending in .md"

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:43
@ssd yeah
i’d like to move to just approving this since it’s _really_ just a codification of existing practice

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:44
I'm 👍 on the principle of it, i haven't read the RFC >.>

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:45
This is the entire change: adding
DCO sign-off will not be required for contributions to documentation repositories (such as chef/chef-web-docs) or contributions that only affect documentation embedded within project repositories (such as the docs directory in chef/inspec).

chip Mar 16, 2017 12:45
Beat me to it
March 16, 2017

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:45
anyone have any objections to this?

coderanger Mar 16, 2017 12:46
You might want to explicitly call out readmes?
Since that's a way more common case than docs/

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:47
i'd interpret that last part as including readmes

martinisoft Mar 16, 2017 12:48
Same here, think that blip covers READMEs

coderanger Mar 16, 2017 12:48
Yeah, I agree, just odd to cite the less common case as the example :)

martinisoft Mar 16, 2017 12:48
or even things like TESTING or CONTRIBUTING

robbkidd Mar 16, 2017 12:48
DCOBot's current implementation only checks commit message text and is unaware of "this change only affects documentation" unless someone _states_ that in the commit message.

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:48
i think it’s probably much more common in inspec, which is what adam was thinking about 🙂
anyway, i’m gonna mash merge

robbkidd Mar 16, 2017 12:49
Can the spec state what file globs within a repo will be considered documentation?

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:49
we’re also at time, so we’ll have to talk more about support windows next week

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:49
(such as files with .md extension or the docs directory in chef/inspec)
🙂

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:50
i don’t think the RFC needs to contain that. we can write a bug on dcobot that has implementation details
thanks everyone

jtimberman Mar 16, 2017 12:50
sure

thom Mar 16, 2017 12:51
MEETING ENDS