Meeting called to order by Thom May (thom) 17:00

### Community Update Thom May (thom)

* [CFP for ChefConf is open](https://chefconf.chef.io/call-for-presentations/).
* [ChefConf tickets](https://chefconf.chef.io) are on sale now.  Early bird ends April 17.

### Chef Client and Server update (adamedx)

* chef-client 12.8.1 released, chef-dk next week
* all releases will have updated openssl
* chef-client now includes FIPS-140 support, gem metadata

### [Adding Cisco IOS XR and Cisco NX-OS to Tier 1](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/192)
* Status: Approved

### [Should we keep the 12.5 action syntax as is?](https://github.com/chef/chef/issues/4672)
* Discussion:
  * to continue in the issue

### [Change Ohai version numbers to match Chef](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/193)
* Discussion:
  * Add moving ohai into chef repository

### [PR-191 - Community Slack migration proposal](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/191)
* Status: In progress
* Discussion:
  * Noah to discuss with Adam J
  * Need to notify Chef support

### [PR-187 - Multiple policy support](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/187)
* Status:  In progress
* Discussion:
  * Revisit next week

Meeting adjourned by Thom May (thom) 17:50

Next Meeting:

[Thursday, March 17, 2016 9AM-9:50AM PDT](http://everytimezone.com/#2016-03-17,300,cn3)
