12:00 < nathenharvey> ***** MEETING STARTS *****
12:01 < nathenharvey> Today's agenda can be found here - https://github.com/chef/chef-community-irc-meetings/blob/master/2016-03-24-agenda.md
12:01 <@thom> good morning
12:01 < nathenharvey> we'll start with updates, review an action item, then on to 3 prs up for review
12:01 < nathenharvey> I'll start us off with a community update
12:02 < nathenharvey> ChefConf tix are now on sale.  Early bird pricing ends April 17 and we hope to see all of you there
12:02 < nathenharvey> There is a contributor discount code available for anyone who has signed a contributor license agreement.  You should have received an email with that code
12:03 < nathenharvey> in case you missed it, the code is "GotChef" This gets you an additional $295 off early bird pricing
12:03 < nathenharvey> The first day of ChefConf (July 11) consists of training workshops and a community summit.  Tickets for these are separate.  Please plan accordingly.
12:04 < nathenharvey> I imagine most of you have seen what's happened in the node community this week.  If not, this is a good read on the topic:  http://www.theregister.co.uk/2016/03/23/npm_left_pad_chaos/
12:04 < nathenharvey> This is a bit of a cautionary tale, how might the same sort of actions impact our community?
12:05 < nathenharvey> We have a couple RFCs in place that address some of the implications here
12:05 < nathenharvey> RFC-069 Cookbook Adoption On Supermarket - https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/blob/master/rfc069-cookbook-adoption.md
12:05 < nathenharvey> RFC-O72 Cookbook and Cookbook Version Yanking Policy - https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/blob/master/rfc072-artifact-yanking.md
12:05 < nathenharvey> and there's a Issue in the Supermarket repo with some conversations about this sort of thing, too.  https://github.com/chef/supermarket/issues/954
12:06 < nathenharvey> No immediate action out of that but definitely something to consider especially as it may relate to your current development workflow.
12:06 < nathenharvey> A question came up this week...should Cookbooks under https://github.com/chef/chef-cookbooks be part of the Chef maintainer policy.
12:07 < nathenharvey> those cookbooks follow a similar process as the chef project but aren't part of that maintainer policy.
12:07 <@jtimberman> Is that a question to discuss now?
12:07 < dougireton> @nathenharvey I assume you mean the training workshops require separate tickets, but the community summit is included with general ChefConf ticket price?
12:07 < nathenharvey> Every cookbook in that organization has it's own MAINTAINERS.md file.  So, if you want to be a maintainer of a cookbooks, just submit a PR
12:08 < nathenharvey> dougireton: both the workshops and the summit require a separate ticket.
12:08 < nathenharvey> jtimberman: it's a question I'm answering now :)
12:08 < nathenharvey> we could totally discuss it further if there's a feeling that the current state is not desirable though
12:09 < nathenharvey> on that same thread there was a question about the Obvious Fix policy.  So figured I'd mention that today as a reminder for folks, too.
12:09 < lamont_oc2> it might produce more community engagement if some active members could be maintainers for chef-cookbooks as a whole?
12:10 < nathenharvey> it applies to cookbooks and other chef projects equally.  You can read the obvious fix policy in the contributing doc for cookbooks (or chef for that matter) ttps://github.com/chef-cookbooks/community_cookbook_documentation/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.MD#chef-obvious-fix-policy
12:10 < nathenharvey> it's also published on the docs site - https://docs.chef.io/community_contributions.html#the-obvious-fix-rule
12:10 <@jtimberman> i don't know, i'd have to reread the chef maintainer policy. it seems like it might be a lot of overhead to manage that for the what, 100+ cookbooks in the chef-cookbooks org
12:12 <@coderanger> lamont_oc2: +1, mostly because it seems unlikely Chef Software would want a new person on the CE team to put in that many individual PRs
12:14 < nathenharvey> lamont_oc2: it might, indeed.
12:14 < nathenharvey> jtimberman: agree.  that's part of why cookbook maintainership is set up this way today.
12:14 <@thom> it feels like we should have a good enough overview of who's contributing to multiple cookbooks to be able to nominate people to be org-wide contributors
12:14 <@jtimberman> i mean it's not ideal, we all know that chef-cookbooks has long suffered from the "not enough active maintainers" problem.
12:14  * jtimberman glances around nervously
12:14 < nathenharvey> I recommend we move the discussion of whether or not to just have an all encompassing maintainer policy for all chef-cookbooks to the end of today's meeting or into an RFC.
12:14 < nathenharvey> I mainly wanted to raise it today to remind/let people know of current state
12:14 < lamont_oc2> +1
12:14 <@jtimberman> üëç
12:14 < nathenharvey> with that, I'm done with community updates for today :)
12:14 < nathenharvey> holoway: over to you for any Chef Software, Inc. updates
12:15 < nathenharvey> holoway: might not be here....let's move on to adamedx for updates on Chef
12:16 < adamedx> Thanks
12:16 < adamedx> If you've followed discourse, we released a new Chef-DK 0.12.0 yesterday
12:16 < adamedx> Lots of updated deps, including test-kitchen 1.6
12:17 < adamedx> https://github.com/chef/chef-dk/blob/master/RELEASE_NOTES.md
12:17 < adamedx> Also
12:17 < adamedx> jkeiser posted this update on how we're implementing the versioning policy: https://discourse.chef.io/t/chef-and-chefdk-version-number-changes/8048
12:18 < adamedx> So if you look in the chef and Chef-DK repos
12:18 < adamedx> You'll see that when your pr is merged the patch version of chef is updated automatically via a commit
12:19 < adamedx> jkeiser's doc goes into more detail on the benefits and links to the original rfc: https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/blob/master/rfc047-release-process.md
12:19 < adamedx> So key thing is that if you see commits like this, they are normal and expected: :)
12:19 < jkeiser> You have no idea how exciting this is for those of us who do the releases of chef :)
12:19 < adamedx> https://github.com/chef/chef/commit/a421cf39a76a80da8154c93f26d3c665afa8f768
12:20 < adamedx> And if your friends ask you why the version numbers seem to be much larger in the patch version
12:20 < adamedx> You can comfort them with jkeiser's discourse post
12:20 < jkeiser> "Pick a build that's been tested and promote it" is SO much better than "hmm it's time to release, let's change a bunch of stuff and build a build and go through a test process and then release if it's good"
12:20 < adamedx> Yeah
12:20 < adamedx> This is a new process
12:21 < adamedx> So definitely if you see strangeness with how the automated version bump works
12:21 < adamedx> Or any other issues related to it
12:21 < adamedx> Please raise them on the GitHub
12:21 < adamedx> That's it for me
12:21 <@coderanger> I'll say that the general feedback I've gotten over the new version numbers even from 12.7 and 12.8 has been mild-but-not-problematic confusion
12:21 < adamedx> Interesting coderanger
12:21 < adamedx> Back to you nathenharvey
12:22 < adamedx> Thank you coderanger
12:22 < nathenharvey> thanks, adamedx
12:23 < nathenharvey> there was an action item from last week's meeting to ensure we follow-up with the packagecloud-to-bintray migration
12:23 < nathenharvey> a post was made to discourse on that topic - https://discourse.chef.io/t/we-ve-moved-our-software-distribution-to-packages-chef-io/8001
12:24 < nathenharvey> So, I think, that action was completed and we're good there.
12:24 < nathenharvey> Let's move on to our PRs to review for today.
12:24 < nathenharvey> The first isn't actually an RFC but a PR against Chef
12:24 < nathenharvey> Add Chef Provisioning to Maintenance Policy - https://github.com/chef/chef/pull/4731
12:25 < tball> Yes!
12:25 <@thom> as with ohai, we need five LT +1s
12:26 <@jtimberman> doneburger
12:26 < tas50> still waiting on the 5th one for Ohai btw
12:26 < tas50> https://github.com/chef/chef/pull/4634
12:27 < tas50> thank you
12:27 <@jtimberman> > 5 ;)
12:27 <@coderanger> @thom Can the sync script make an LTs team automaticall?
12:28 <@coderanger> Might help with notifications :)
12:28 < nathenharvey> OK, that seems in good shape now.  Let's move on to our next RFC PR which is Multiple policy support - https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/187
12:28 <@thom> yeah, that can happen
12:29 <@thom> coderanger: i'll make that so
12:30 < nathenharvey> coderanger: do you have words to say / type on 187?
12:30 <@coderanger> I updated it with some more specific bits
12:30 <@coderanger> I think it's about as good as I can get it
12:31 <@coderanger> The implementation is going to be rough around the edges, but I'm not sure there is a solution to that and we really are going to need to address this workflow if we want to recommend a snapshot-based workflow
12:31 <@coderanger> (which I think we should)
12:32 < jkeiser> I hadn't seen this idea yet, and like it
12:33 <@thom> i think we've reached the point where the RFC has probably been discussed enough, and we should go ahead and accept it
12:33 <@coderanger> I mean if there is a compelling counter-proposal I'm cool with that :)
12:33 <@jtimberman> accept it because the discussion tended toward positive?
12:34 <@coderanger> But I don't think it should just be accepted because we've run out of things to say
12:34 <@jtimberman> Indeed.
12:34 < jkeiser> I'm a real fan of the decoupling of runs
12:34 <@thom> i think the discussion has been positive and has tended to converge on the same thing
12:35 < jkeiser> heh, you said "converge"
12:36 <@coderanger> The issue with registering handlers still needs resolution too
12:36 < lamont_oc2> heh ‚Äòzap‚Äô is indeed a curious case
12:36 <@coderanger> Like do we make one of the policies more special-er in that it gets non-fork control
12:37 <@coderanger> lamont_oc2: I've been saying zap-style stuff is a bad idea because of that for years
12:37 < lamont_oc2> think i‚Äôm +1
12:37 < lamont_oc2> as long as run ‚Äòtwo‚Äô drops all the files whatever directory and run ‚Äòone‚Äô does not then you‚Äôre fine...
12:38 < jkeiser> Do we think that we can move forward with the proposal in question without resolving handler registration, and still be able to fix that in a future RFC without backcompat breaks?
12:38 < lamont_oc2> otherwise enjoy playing with your footgun‚Ä¶
12:39 <@coderanger> jkeiser: I think if we start with it being unsupported, adding it in some way would be fine
12:39 < jkeiser> Yeah, I think you are right
12:40 < jkeiser> I am +1. We'll probably discover issues during impl, but the direction seems right to me
12:40 < nathenharvey> I move that we take a vote on this RFC and decide if it should be accepted.
12:40 < jkeiser> Seconded, Robert!
12:41 < kallistec> I'm +1. I think the correct thing to do for teams is to implement Ci that does the fanout from cookbook updates to policies that include them, but I think Chef should let you be productive without that
12:41 < jkeiser> This gives people something they've wanted for a long while
12:41 <@coderanger> kallistec: the npm kerfuffle is a great example of why snapshot workflows are cool :)
12:42 < jkeiser> The one thing that security folks might want is a way to lock out app team from detaching or altering their security policy from the node, but that can be changed or added later if the need arises
12:42 < jkeiser> And could be handled with monitoring
12:42 < jkeiser> +1
12:43 <@coderanger> I am +1 for accepting
12:43 < nathenharvey> thom: Adam's out so you're decider today
12:43 <@thom> yep
12:43 <@thom> i think we're in a good position on this, so +1 let's make it so
12:44 < ranjib> +1
12:44 < ranjib> i hope we get the ci bits right
12:44 < nathenharvey> awesome!  on to PR-193 - Change Ohai version numbers to match Chef - https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/193
12:45 < nathenharvey> and a warning that we have 5 minutes left
12:46 <@coderanger> I wrote up what I think is a decent middle ground plan as a comment
12:46 <@thom> i suspect that coderanger's proposal is where i started out from, and i'm happy with taht
12:46 <@thom> the aforementioned version bumping bot can do all this for us, essentially
12:47 < jkeiser> Funnily, I just released ohai 8.13 for build reasons, and that would be impossible if the versions were tied (because it had new features, it would have to be a minor version bump)
12:47 < jkeiser> Unless we abandoned semver for ohai itself
12:48 < jkeiser> The reason being, I didn't release a corresponding minor version of Chef
12:48 <@coderanger> jkeiser: Yes, the idea is stop having semver for ohai
12:48 < jkeiser> righto
12:49 <@coderanger> Ohai versioning would just be snapshots of master at the time of the corresponding Chef build
12:49 < jkeiser> My understanding is that ohai could have different patch #'s
12:49 < nathenharvey> we're down to one minute in our meeting time so move to vote or push to next week?
12:49 < jkeiser> At least, that's how I read the proposal
12:50 <@coderanger> I don't think that's the idea
12:50 <@thom> jkeiser: no, they should be the same
12:50 <@coderanger> It would be direct equivalence
12:50 < jkeiser> It's pretty clear about minor version being the lockstep
12:50 <@thom> i'll update to make that clear
12:50 <@thom> nathenharvey: vote next week i think
12:50 < nathenharvey> yep, feels like it
12:50 < jkeiser> OK. Then I think that what I just did would still be impossible
12:51 < nathenharvey> OK, I'll include this PR in next week's agenda.  Further discussion in the meantime should happen in the PR itself
12:51 < jkeiser> But it's probably OK, I did it for weird build reasons
12:51 < jkeiser> I'll dump this into the PR
12:51 <@coderanger> jkeiser: What you did would require a mid-cycle Chef release
12:51 < nathenharvey> thanks everyone for attending and continuing to be awesome!
12:51 <@coderanger> Not impossible, but also would have to be a reasonably big deal to warrant it
12:52 < nathenharvey> Next meeting - Thursday, March 31, 2016 9AM-9:50AM PDT - http://everytimezone.com/#2016-3-31,240,cn3
12:52 < jkeiser> Yep
12:52 < jkeiser> I think I can deal with the problem I just had in the new world
12:52 < nathenharvey> ***** MEETING ENDS *****
