# Chef Developers' IRC Meeting

[Thursday, August 21, 2014 9AM-10AM PDT](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=%23chef-hacking+developers%27+meeting&iso=20140821T12&p1=419&ah=1)

Moderator:  Adam Jacob (holoway)

Secretary:  Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey)

### Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 9:01am PDT by Nathen Harvey (nathenharvey)


#### Old business

##### Discussion of [attribute syntax RFC](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/40).

Adam Jacob (holoway) agreed with Dan DeLeo's (kallistec) suggestion to remove the attempt to "DWIM" when using the dots syntax.  coderanger, nathenharvey, jonlives, j^2, kallistec, btm were in support, none against.

**Action Item**: ssd7 to remove the DWIM for dots, and then merge the [attribute syntax RFC](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/40)

##### Discussion of [RFC for RFC workflow](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/37).  

Adam Jacob suggests we merge now and accept PRs for editors.  jonlives, coderanger, nathenharvey, kallistec, jtimberman were in support, none against.  

Everyone agreed with Adam's statement thanking coderanger for doing essentially all the work here, including going way over the top with an overview of all the possible options.

The PR was merged in and is now officially known as [RFC 0](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/blob/master/rfc000-rfc-process.md).

Mark Harrison (mivok) added Noah Kantrowitz (coderanger) to the rfc-editors group on GitHub, granting him commit access to the [RFC repository](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc).

**Action Item**: Noah (coderanger) - will write up for the mailing list and his blog a post about the new RFC process

**Action Item**: Nathen (nathenharvey) cross-post Noah's post on the Chef blog

##### Discussion of [RFC to standarize on two workflows](https://github.com/opscode/chef-rfc/pull/34)

There are lots of comments in the PR.  We discussed many of them and generated a few action items:

**Action Item**: Jon Cowie (jonlives) and Mike Fiedler (miketheman) - to look at what `chef generate repo` produces and send a PR a better suggested starting position for the monolithic workflow.  We agreed that this particular task can be handled outside of merging the RFC.


**Action Item**: Adam (holoway) to make one more round of updates based on feedback and then merge.

#### Reports
##### Community

* [Seattle](http://getchef.com/summit) and [London Summit](http://getchef.com/summit-london)
* There are sponsorship opportunities for the Seattle Summit.  Contact [summit@getchef.com](mailto:summit@getchef.com) and/or [download the prospectus](http://www.getchef.com/summit/chef-community-summit-2014-prospectus.pdf) for details.
* Discussion of the need for code of conduct that explicitly covers both IRC and the mailing list.  The policy should:
  * Be visible and easily accessible when joining IRC and the mailing list
  * Clearly state what actions will result in punitive action
  * Clearly state who is responsible for deciding when punitive action is warranted
  * Specify punitive actions and appeals process

**Action Item**: Nathen (nathenharvey) to write an RFC with guidelines for IRC and mailing list.

##### Chef Client

* chef-client 11.14.6 and 10.34.0 were recently released.
* minor release of chef-dk should ship within a week

##### Chef Software

Chef server 12 is in progress and will be released soon.  This release will be backwards compatible to Chef 11 and will have a few new features.  This should be the last release with this level of non-transparency.

The Chef webui is going to be officially unsupported by Chef Software beginning with Chef 12.  The web ui available in Enterprise Chef will, as of now, be made available to folks for free under a certain node limit.

The chef-server-webui will continue to receive security updates until Chef 13 and if someone wants to take over its maintenance, we would be happy to do that (obviously - its open source).

**Q:** will there be any other type of user interface that is not knife?

**A:** not that is open source and supported by Chef Software

**Action Item:** Adam to post to the mailing list reminding folks of the deprecation of the current open source web server UI


##### Governance and maintenance

Adam (holoway) has drafts of governance and maintenance policies that he is circulating with the stakeholders that need to approve before they can be discussed more openly.

These updated policies will be available by the Summit and will include provisions for multiple, external people with commit rights and stewardship over parts of the code base
and a policy for how you become one of those folks, etc.

Noah (coderanger) revealed his intention to fork Chef if there is not a community maintenance plan in place by the summit.

Adam (holoway) agreed that forking is an important right in open source software
and that communities are made of people and trust.  Anyone is free to fork Chef.  However, recent changes and actions show a lot of movement towards building more trust in the process and community.  The timeline for change is not determined by any single individual and changes may take longer than anyone desires.

Meeting adjourned at 10:13am PDT by Nathen Harvey

## Next Meeting

[Thursday, September, 4, 2014 9AM-10AM PDT](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=%23chef-hacking+developers%27+meeting&iso=20140904T12&p1=419&ah=1)
