Meeting called to order by Thom May (thom) - 16:00

### Community Update (thom)

* London summit done

### Chef Software update (holoway)

* Delivery released as GA
* Compliance, InSpec, and Train announced

### Client/Server Update (btm)
* chef dk 0.10
  * includes knife-windows 1.0
  * includes InSpec

### [PR-154 - Add RFC for immediately_before notification timing](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/154)
* Status: Approved
* Discussion:
  * use `:before` and `:before_once`

### [PR-157 - Chef-Client Exit status](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/157)
* Status: In progress, review next week
* Discussion:
  * Just define reboot codes, let future RFCs add more if required
  * Narrow range down to use unix compatible exit codes

### [PR-159 - Ohai Segments and Eager Loading](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/159)
* Status: Approved
* Discussion:
  * Should plugins live in `/var` or `/etc/chef/` - implementer decides.

### [PR-160 - add 'gem' to cookbook metadata](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/160)
* Status: In progress, review next week
* Discussion:
  * Should gems be installed as part of the base chef gemset, or as
    separate? Feeling is that separate is better.
  * Talk of `initializors` phase, but that would be a separate RFC

Meeting adjourned by Thom May (thom) - 17:50

Next Meeting:

[Thursday, November 12, 2015 9AM-9:50AM PDT](http://everytimezone.com/#2015-11-12,240,cn3)
