Meeting called to order by Thom May (thom) - 16:02

### Community Update (thom)

**Chef Community Summit - http://summit.chef.io - October 14-15, 2015 in Seattle
* Location found for the London summit, details coming soon!
* Office Hours via Meetup.com - http://www.meetup.com/Chef-Office-Hours/

### Chef Update (cwebber/holoway)

* We've launched https://feedback.chef.io for customers and community members to make feature requests and vote on others' requests.
* holoway is considering ways to share "decider" powers, to more easily delegate and not block on him.
* No real progress on the governance board.  We'll try to have an update next meeting.

### Chef Client and Server Update (thom/adamedx/ssd7)

* Chef Client 12.4.0 RC 2 is out - please test!
* Chef Client RC releases are coming off master, yay!
* Chef Server 12.1 RC is out now, new RC coming tomorrow (most likely).
* Chef Server 12.1 likely for release next week, with lots of goodies - [check out the release notes](https://github.com/chef/chef-server/blob/master/omnibus/RELEASE_NOTES.md).
* Work is continuing on CD for chef-server, to get back to a better release pace.

### Extend [RFC-21 Chef Platform Support Policy](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/blob/master/rfc021-platform-support-policy.md) to include minimum requirements for each tier of support. (btm) - See [PR 131](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/131)
* Status: Ongoing
* Discussion:
  * ACTION ITEM: jtimberman going to hunt for LTs ; We'll follow up on this in within two weeks (by the 2015/06/25 meeting).
  * Discussion around grandfathering existing platforms and not wanting platforms to drop off the support matrix because they don't have LTs or maintainers.  jtimberman is going to do some recruiting for platforms that need LTs.


### [PR 118 - Initial draft of an ohai configuration specification](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/118) about the difference between Ohai::Config and --hint (btm)
* Status:  Ongoing
* Discussion:
  * To be the first item decided on at 2015-06-18 meeting
  * Discussion:
    * Discussion around the UX and how discoverable this will be for the end user.  There is still a discrepancy between how hints behave and how the config file would be used.


### [Add "property" to resource](https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/128)
* Status:  Approved (after the meeting)

Meeting Adjourned by Steven Murawski (stevenmurawski) - 16:50

Next Meeting:

[Thursday, June, 18, 2015 9AM-9:50AM PDT](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=%23chef-hacking+developers%27+meeting&iso=20150618T12&p1=419&am=50)
