11:02 AM <@thom> Good day, folks. It's your regularly scheduled IRC meeting. The agenda's here: https://github.com/chef/chef-community-irc-meetings/blob/master/2015-06-11-agenda.md 
11:02 AM <@thom> cwebber: done
11:03 AM <cwebber> thom: thanks!
11:03 AM <@thom> mr holoway will be joining in a few minutes, so until then i'm going to talk briefly about community, then cwebber has an update, and adamedx will update us too
11:04 AM <@thom> Community wise: Community summit in seattle is open for bookings, http://summit.chef.io ; October 14 and 15
11:04 AM <cheeseplus> hail
11:05 AM <@thom> Community Summit in London: we've found a venue, expect the full announcement soon
11:05 AM <@jonlives> woohoo
11:06 AM <@thom> Chef Office Hours: We've run office hours in a somewhat ad-hoc fashion for some time. We'd like to do better at this. So, there's now a meetup group: http://www.meetup.com/Chef-Office-Hours/
11:07 AM <@thom> there's also a (very empty, currently) repo for suggestions: https://github.com/chef/developer-office-hours
11:08 AM <@thom> if there's a topic you'd like to see covered, or you'd like to be involved with, please raise a PR
11:08 AM <@thom> I think that's all from me. cwebber?
11:08 AM <cwebber> Hey all, we have launched and will be announcing https://feedback.chef.io later today.  It is a place for members of the community, which includes customers, to give feedback on feature requests, etc.
11:09 AM <cwebber> We want to be super clear, that while this is a place to provide feedback it will not replace the RFC process.
11:09 AM <cwebber> With that said, it is likely that feature requests will result in RFC.
11:09 AM <cwebber> If you have any questions, please reach out to megan@chef.io
11:09 AM <@jtimberman> woot
11:09 AM <cwebber> i can also answer a few questions now if there are any.
11:09 AM <@jtimberman> love this
11:09 AM <@coderanger> cwebber: Who will be actively policing this to make sure it doesn't turn in to a support forum?
11:10 AM <cwebber> coderanger: the product team here at chef
11:10 AM <@coderanger> And what will be the process to hand off support questions?
11:10 AM <adamedx> cwebber also, it works in such a way as to make using it that way difficult
11:10 AM <adamedx> you get to "vote" on things, but votes are limited
11:10 AM <@holoway> hi
11:10 AM <@jonlives> hi holoway :)
11:10 AM <@coderanger> adamedx: If it has textarea, people will ask support questions on it >_<
11:10 AM <adamedx> definitely check out the site to get a feel for it :)
11:10 AM <@thom> holoway: hi!
11:11 AM <cwebber> coderanger: I would guess that the product team will handle that hand off
11:11 AM <cwebber> coderanger: but i will pass along that concern
11:11 AM <@coderanger> cwebber: Guesses make me nervous, lets come up with some plan :)
11:11 AM <@thom> cwebber: this is awesome, thanks
11:11 AM <@coderanger> cwebber: Could just be some standard boilerplate to close support-y things with
11:12 AM <lamont_> the product team just needs some boilerplate and needs to close and lock support requests, that's all we do for github issues
11:12 AM <cwebber> coderanger: since it is an effort of the product team, I am sure they will make sure it gets taken care of.
11:12 AM <@coderanger> lamont_: :thumbsup:
11:12 AM <@btm> coderanger: the product team responds as appropriate, see: https://feedback.chef.io/forums/301644-chef-product-feedback/suggestions/8340654-provide-method-for-users-who-have-forgotten-their
11:12 AM <@holoway> I think that's a good idea, and we should track it down
11:12 AM <@jonlives> we've aready got a couple of feedbacks in :p
11:12 AM <@thom> holoway: would you like togive your update now?
11:13 AM <@holoway> sure, my update is short - I'm contemplating how to make a larger number of us capable of rotating through the decider powers
11:13 AM <@coderanger> cwebber: (and maybe add a note linking to the places to ask actual support questions on the main page itself)
11:13 AM <@holoway> I'm mostly good at keeping this a high priority on my schedule, as long as time zones allow
11:14 AM <@holoway> but if anyone has thoughts on how we might make a structure work where perhaps 3 of us all have that ability, and we rotate though, and make sure we're in sync on big decisions
11:14 AM <@holoway> that's something I'm interested in hearing about
11:14 AM <@holoway> otherwise, I'll come up with more of my own :)
11:14 AM <@holoway> Chef Software is, otherwise, just fine 
11:14 AM <adamedx> indeed
11:14 AM <@jonlives> what about the same as we do with maintainers, except a decider can decide, any -1 from another of the three results in a majority vote
11:15 AM <@coderanger> holoway: Isn't that the point of having LTs?
11:15 AM <@jonlives> either that or having you as still being the arch-decider so to speak
11:15 AM <@jonlives> coderanger: decider is project level rather than sub-component level thp
11:15 AM <@jonlives> *tho
11:15 AM <@holoway> coderanger: I was thinking specifically about the RFCs that tend to get deicerated in this meeting
11:16 AM <@coderanger> jonlives: Sure, but things should only get to the decider if they want to override the LT
11:16 AM <@holoway> jonlives: I'm not comfortable making it an actual majority (ie - I'm the arch-decider)
11:16 AM <@jonlives> holoway: in that case I'd say any decider can decide and a -1 is deferred to you
11:16 AM <@holoway> anyway, I wanted to put it in your heads
11:16 AM <@holoway> jonlives: that might work
11:16 AM <@coderanger> Basically +1 on more delegation I just think we already have stuffs in place for that and should use them more :)
11:16 AM <@jonlives> it still gives you the ultimate power, but lets you delegate it where possible.
11:16 AM <@holoway> coderanger: cool - I'll look at tit
11:17 AM <@holoway> (er, it)
11:17 AM <@holoway> ok
11:17 AM <@thom> OK. Chef client update: 12.4.0 RC 2 (which is really RC 1) is available. It's a bit of a biggie, please test - and see my email for more details.
11:17 AM <@thom> adamedx: over to you...
11:17 AM <@btm> some words in writing that explain the relationship between rfc000 (rfc process) and rfc030 (chef process) would be Good.
11:18 AM <adamedx> nice thing about chef-client is that we are doing a better job of keeping releases based on master
11:18 AM <adamedx> while still using the rc releases to work out quality issues
11:18 AM <adamedx> so thanks thom
11:18 AM <@jonlives> holoway: (any info on governance board stuff btw?)
11:18 AM <@holoway> no, which makes me question whether it was even actually neccessary
11:19 AM <@holoway> (which doesn't mean it isn't)
11:19 AM <@jonlives> (fwiw I still think it is, or at least that it's worth trying - we just haven't tried it yet)
11:19 AM <@holoway> (I agree - but I have a niggling YAGNI in the back of my brain)
11:19 AM <adamedx> shoudl we update on cbgb for next meeting?
11:19 AM <@holoway> ya
11:20 AM <@thom> noted
11:20 AM <adamedx> k
11:20 AM <adamedx> all right
11:20 AM <adamedx> continuing on some Chef Software stuff, going to redirect to ssd7
11:20 AM <adamedx> to talk about Chef Server release which is currently an rc
11:20 AM <@ssd7> Ohai.
11:21 AM <@ssd7> First, thanks to everyone who tested the RC.  The erchef improvements there are looking good both in Hosted and at a few customer sites.  
11:21 AM <@ssd7> We hope to get another RC out tomorrow and are aiming for the final release of 12.1 out next week
11:21 AM <@ssd7> If you haven't take a look, lots of good stuff has landed in 12.1: https://github.com/chef/chef-server/blob/master/omnibus/RELEASE_NOTES.md
11:21 AM <adamedx> looking forward to it ssd7 
11:22 AM <@ssd7> Internally, work continues on CD for the chef-server to help us get back to the "release often" discipline we had for 12.0.0 through 12.0.8
11:22 AM <@ssd7> That's all here.  
11:22 AM <@thom> thanks!
11:23 AM <@thom> ok, action items from last week
11:23 AM <adamedx> thanks, I'm done then
11:23 AM <@jtimberman> fwiw, policyfiles api endpoint is delightful and makes policyfiles even MOAR awesome.
11:23 AM <@thom> https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/131 from btm
11:23 AM <@holoway> this is adding the requirement for an LT for tier 1, and a maintainer for tier 2
11:24 AM <@jtimberman> +1 for #131.
11:24 AM <@holoway> my question here is do we have LTs for all of tier 1, and a maintainer for all of current tier 2?
11:24 AM <@jtimberman> should it be clear that just because there *is* a LT/maintainer doesn't mean that a platform is T1/T2?
11:24 AM <@holoway> what I don't want is a stealth drop of platforms due to not meting the requirement
11:24 AM <@jonlives> I think that sounds entirely reasonable, but we might have to grandfather in existing supported platforms and / or find maintainers
11:24 AM <@btm> holoway: i thought about that, but didn't look presuming that we would grandfather existing t1/t2.
11:25 AM <@holoway> awesome
11:25 AM <@holoway> lets explicitly grandfather
11:25 AM <@holoway> we don't need to put it in the PR
11:25 AM <@holoway> well
11:25 AM <@holoway> on second thought, we probably should
11:25 AM <lamont_> i'm pretty sure that i'm a maintainer at least for all the platforms.
11:25 AM <@jonlives> would be nice to find maintainers for them tho, less confusing for folks.
11:25 AM <@holoway> lamont_: that's true!
11:26 AM <@holoway> lets ask it a different way - out of the people in this room, can we commit to making sure that every platform that needs an LT has one, and every platform that needs a maintainer has one?
11:26 AM <lamont_> AIX is probably missing an LT due to both me and scott hain playing 'not it'
11:26 AM <@holoway> if so, no need to grandfather, and its a better outcome
11:26 AM <@holoway> flip a coin :)
11:26 AM <@holoway> heheh3e
11:26 AM <@btm> AIX + Solaris need LTs.
11:26 AM <@holoway> you know you want to be the AIX decider
11:26 AM <@jtimberman> scott doesn't irc
11:26 AM <lamont_> not it!
11:26 AM <@holoway> well, they have to volunteer
11:27 AM <kierrr> haha
11:27 AM <@holoway> I'm not going to order anyone
11:27 AM <kierrr> banish him to the AIX pits
11:27 AM <@holoway> hehehe
11:27 AM <@holoway> we should be able to recruit someone for solaris
11:27 AM <tBunnyMan> kierrr sounds like he wants AIX but doesn't want to say it directly
11:27 AM <@holoway> for example, lets go campaign for bdha
11:27 AM <@holoway> ok
11:27 AM <@holoway> I'm +1
11:28 AM <@holoway> without a grandfather
11:28 AM <@btm> oh hrm. Ubuntu needs an LT.
11:28 AM <@btm> ranjib: You should volunteer to promote yourself.
11:28 AM <@holoway> and as a community, lets get on the LT campaign trail
11:28 AM <@holoway> ranjib: I would approve that
11:28 AM <ranjib> k
11:29 AM <@holoway> I totally trust your point of view on what is good for chef on ubuntu
11:29 AM <@jtimberman> the master list of LT's/maintainers is MAINTAINERS.md in chef/chef?
11:29 AM <@holoway> ok
11:29 AM <@jonlives> yah
11:29 AM <@btm> jtimberman: technically it's the toml, and the md is generated.
11:29 AM <@holoway> lets move on - I'm putting the stamp on that PR
11:29 AM <@jtimberman> that should have NOT been a ? on the end there :)
11:29 AM <@jtimberman> https://github.com/chef/chef/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md#platform-specific-components
11:30 AM <@holoway> jtimberman or btm: can one of you take the role of lead campaigner for LTs/Maintainers?
11:30 AM <@holoway> ie: go find us LTs
11:30 AM <@jtimberman> holoway: I can do that.
11:30 AM <@holoway> awesome
11:31 AM <@holoway> thom: add a note to have jt report on his hunt in two weeks
11:31 AM <stevenmurawski> noted
11:31 AM <@btm> thought: do we want to campaign for maintainers for like, debian? and other "similar platforms" like centos?
11:31 AM <@holoway> yes
11:31 AM <stevenmurawski> I'm filling in for thom (he's hunting for power)
11:31 AM <@holoway> awesome
11:32 AM <@holoway> debian and ubuntu are not the same
11:32 AM <@jtimberman> holoway: card added to my backlog, will get on that next week
11:32 AM <@holoway> centos is EL
11:32 AM <@holoway> anyway
11:32 AM <@holoway> next up
11:32 AM <@btm> jtimberman: take note that a lot of the t2 platforms don't have maintainers because debian->ubuntu, etc.
11:32 AM <@holoway> https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/118
11:32 AM <@jtimberman> btm: I have opinions and ideas. ;)
11:32 AM <lamont_> i guess you can put me down as LT pro tempore for AIX and Solaris
11:33 AM — @holoway hugs lamont_
11:33 AM <@btm> 118: I just added some words about autovivification this morning. 
11:33 AM — @someara chuckles
11:33 AM <@thom> i found power. hipchat on windows = sad battery face
11:33 AM <lamont_> can also put me down as maintainer on debian and [Open]SuSE
11:33 AM <@coderanger> I'm still cranky about 118
11:33 AM <@thom> lamont_: i can take debian and solaris
11:33 AM <@coderanger> I think this UX is very not delightful.
11:33 AM <@coderanger> And none of the proposed solutions make _any_ sense as an end user
11:33 AM <@holoway> to be honest, I'm still trying to process all the implications - I spent an hour trying to catch myself up
11:34 AM <@holoway> but I don't feel like I'm well informed enough to make a call on it today
11:34 AM <@btm> 118: handling "undefined method `[]' for nil:NilClass" is probably an implementation detail we should handle, given the same thing in Chef ( https://feedback.chef.io/forums/301644-chef-product-feedback/suggestions/8364522-more-descriptive-nomethoderror-undefined-method )
11:34 AM <kallistec> btm: I would've fixed that already if it was tractable
11:35 AM <@btm> kallistec: is we do limit hash depth in Ohai.config, it might be easier?
11:35 AM <kallistec> that's really what the attribute2 RFC is about but I'm too busy to finish, let alone implement
11:35 AM <@coderanger> Until there is a solid answer for "How do I enable the EC2 plugin and reconfigure the Hostname plugin?", I don't think 118 should move forward.
11:36 AM <kallistec> btm: my reasoning for the limited hash depth is to steer developers to write code that will not lead users down the path of no method [] on nil
11:36 AM <@btm> coderanger: I directly answered that question: https://github.com/chef/chef-rfc/pull/118#issuecomment-109639675
11:36 AM <@coderanger> And if the answer is "knife bootstrap --copy-config ohai.rb --hint ec2" I would say that makes no sense
11:36 AM <@coderanger> btm: You did, and I think that answer is unsatisfactory.
11:36 AM <@coderanger> Having --copy-config and --hint at the same time for things that _seem_ similar is bad UX
11:37 AM <@btm> coderanger: I gave a possible roadmap to a satisfactory place, but too much has to change to too many other places to scope them into the RFC that adds a config file.
11:37 AM <@holoway> coderanger: is that because you can set the hints in a config file, and also from the cli?
11:37 AM <@coderanger> holoway: You cannot, in the current proposal, set hints in the config file
11:38 AM <kallistec> yeah, but we can't nuke hints for a major release cycle anyway and trying to answer it all up front will cause scope creep expansion so rapid that it tears spacetime
11:38 AM <@coderanger> holoway: Which is part of my frustration, you need to interact with two different subsystems to accomplish very similar goals
11:38 AM <@coderanger> kallistec: If we can't answer this question effectively, then adding the config system is itself unacceptable creep
11:39 AM <@coderanger> As written, this proposal results in a UX that is going to be incomprehensible to new users
11:39 AM <@jonlives> gotta step out folks, something;s come up - until next time!
11:39 AM <@thom> coderanger: totally disagree. having used ohai in non-chef applications, it's in dire need of a config system regardless of hints
11:39 AM <@holoway> coderanger: is the status quo also incomprehensible? 
11:39 AM <@coderanger> and I think that is more than enough grounds to say "then we don't do it"
11:40 AM <kallistec> I could not possibly disagree more. Config is a thing that is good regardless.
11:40 AM <@thom> coderanger: it doesn't make the situation one iota worse than it is currently. and it gives us a roadmap to make it better
11:41 AM <@coderanger> thom: It does make it worse when and user using knife bootstrap has to touch both of these systems
11:41 AM <@coderanger> that is objectively a worse UX
11:41 AM <@holoway> can a bootstrap user even accomplish the same thing in the current scenario?
11:41 AM <@coderanger> The current system with --hint is not wonderful, but two systems is worse than one
11:42 AM <lamont_> so this whole thing started out as a fairly simple problem with solaris hostname resolution.  it grew into an ohai config system.  it is now in danger of growing to the scope of rewriting the hints API.  can we somehow reign in the scope a bit?
11:42 AM <kallistec> sunsetting hints or reducing the scope of their usage would be fine, but we have to tackle the reason hints exist in the first place
11:42 AM <@coderanger> holoway: If we made things like "reconfigure the hostname plugin" live in the hints system, sure.
11:42 AM <@btm> holoway: you could use start using hint files to configure plugins, like "--hint hostname-configure_nis_as_preferred" but everyone would murder.
11:42 AM <@coderanger> I think a totally reasonable approach, as mentioned in the comments, is to centralize on the config subsystem, have hints? in Ohai check config data first.
11:43 AM <@coderanger> So users would not have to interact with the hints system itself
11:43 AM <@coderanger> --hint would exist for comat, but would have to expect users to use ut
11:43 AM <@coderanger> and define the flow entirely in terms of the config system (which still needs a solid UX worked out)
11:44 AM <@coderanger> And no, I don't think defining the knife UX for using the system is out of scope for the RFC
11:44 AM <@coderanger> btm: --hint 'hostname={"from": ["nis"]}'
11:44 AM <@btm> yeah, murder.
11:44 AM <@coderanger> btm: the CLI does already take JSON values
11:45 AM <stevenmurawski> 5 minute warning
11:45 AM <@coderanger> btm: How would you propose to set that kind of data on the CLI with a --ohai-config flag if not via JSON?
11:45 AM <@holoway> ok - I'm not going to decide this today, but we should work to get it done by n ext week
11:45 AM <@holoway> in broad strokes
11:45 AM <kallistec> honestly. I don't see how config+hints actually is worse than, say, client.rb + dna.json
11:46 AM <@holoway> I would favor making non-back-compat breaking iterative progress to the goal, rather than eating an incremental redesign of entire subsystems
11:46 AM <kallistec> there's clearly different purposes
11:46 AM <@coderanger> kallistec: because that is less clear than you think it is
11:46 AM <@btm> holoway: please take some time on comment on the PR, I think I'm blocked at the moment.
11:46 AM <@holoway> in particular if we're sketching our way towards a better, unified, back-compat breaking major relase
11:46 AM <@coderanger> kallistec: "enable the EC2 plugin" and "use NIS for hostnames" sound similar to me.
11:46 AM <@holoway> btm: yep
11:47 AM <kallistec> coderanger: not the way things are now. if ohai was opt-in, then sure
11:47 AM <stevenmurawski> We've got 2 minutes left.. not sure if you want to dive into anything new holoway
11:47 AM <@holoway> as a point of principle, in general, I don't want perfect to be the enemy of the good
11:47 AM <kallistec> so now we have to design an opt-in plugin system in ohai and chef
11:48 AM <@coderanger> kallistec: "enable the EC2 plugin" doesn't mean actually enabling the plugin, creating the hint right is what seems to enable it if you are an end user
11:48 AM <@holoway> but lets get this resolved by the next meeting
11:48 AM <@coderanger> kallistec: The detail that it is always enabled but dormant without the hint is an obscure internal detail
11:48 AM <@coderanger> kallistec: The way users think of it is that --hint ec2 is what enables the plugin
11:48 AM <kallistec> " design an opt-in plugin system in ohai and chef" is something I would like. but I don't see any way it makes sense to make it a prereq for progress on a different thing
11:49 AM <kallistec> so, yes, we have a lot of things we can improve
11:49 AM <@coderanger> Or put another way, think of what actions users will want to take using this new config system and design based on that
11:49 AM <@coderanger> Right now this is being designed based on your needs as a developer
11:49 AM <@coderanger> and I'm very very concerned that is putting developer experience over user experience
11:50 AM <kallistec> totally disagree, this is driven by an actual user problem
11:50 AM <@holoway> ok - lets push PR 128 to the next meeting, and have the deciderating of this issue as the #1 agenda item next week
11:50 AM <@holoway> wherein I will make a call after talking to everyone
11:50 AM <stevenmurawski> Noted.  And we are at time for this meeting